O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES       45
McGowan, telling him to administer it in a liquid, if possible, and
received the hearty thanks of the backyard Lochinvar.
The subtlety of Ikey’s action becomes apparent upon recital of
his subsequent move. He sent a messenger for Mr. Riddle and dis-
closed the plans of McGowan for eloping with Rosy. Mr. Riddle
was a stout man, brick-dusty of complexion and sudden in action.
‘Much obliged,’ he said briefly to Ikey. ‘The lazy Irish loafer!
My own room’s just above Rosy’s. I’ll just go up there myself after
supper and load the shot-gun and wait. If he comes in my back-
yard he’ll go away in an ambulance instead of a bridal chaise.’
With Rosy held in the clutches of Morpheus for a many-
hours’ deep slumber, and the bloodthirsty parent waiting, armed
and forewarned, Ikey felt that his rival was close, indeed, upon
discomfiture.
All night in the Blue Light Store he waited at his duties for
chance news of the tragedy, hut none came.
At eight o’clock in the morning the day clerk arrived and Ikey
tarted hurriedly for Mrs. Riddle’s to learn the outcome. And, lo!
as he stepped out of the store who but Chunk McGowan sprang
from a passing street-car and grasped his hand - Chunk McGowan
with a victor’s smile and flushed with joy.
‘Pulled it off,’ said Chunk with Elysium in his grin. ‘Rosy hit the
fire-escape on time to a second and we was under the wire at the
Reverend’s at 9.30 1/4. She’s up at the flat - she cooked eggs this
mornin’ in a blue kimono - Lord I how lucky I am! You must pace
up some day, lkey, and feed with us. I’ve got a job down near the
bridge, and that’s where I’m heading for now.’
‘The - the powder?’ stammered Ikey.
‘Oh, that stuff you gave me!’ said Chunk broadening his grin;
‘well, it was his way. I sat down at the supper table last night at
Riddle’s, and I looked at Rosy, and I says to myself, "Chunk, if you
get the girl get her on the square - don’t try any hocus-pocus with
a thoroughbred like her.” And I keeps the paper you give me in
By pocket. And then my lamps falls on another party present,
Who, I says to myself, is failin’ in a proper affection toward his
comin’ son-in-law, so I watches my chance and dumps that
powder in old man Riddle’s coffee - see?’