O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    313
have started a hack line with it after he left the ark with the two
animals hitched to it. As I approached he threw open the door,
drew out a leather duster, waved it, without using it, and said in
deep, rumbling tones:
‘Step right in, suh; ain’t a speck of dust in it - jus’ back from a
funeral, suh.’
I inferred that on such gala occasions carriages were given an
extra cleaning. I looked up and down the street and perceived that
there was little choice among the vehicles for hire that lined the
kerb. I looked in my memorandum book for the address of Azalea
Adair.
‘I want to go to 861 Jessamine Street,’ I said, and was about to
step into the hack. But for an instant the thick, long, gorilla-like
arm of the old negro barred me. On his massive and saturnine face
a look of sudden suspicion and enmity flashed for a moment.
Then, with quickly returning conviction, he asked blandishingly:
‘What are you gwine there for, boss?’
‘What is that to you?’ I asked a little sharply.
‘Nothin’, suh, jus’ nothin’. Only it’s a lonesome kind of part of
town and few folks ever has business out there. Step right in. The
seats is clean - jes’ got back from a funeral, suh.’
A mile and a half it must have been to our journey’s end. I could
hear nothing but the fearful rattle of the ancient hack over the
uneven brick paving; I could smell nothing but the drizzle, now
further flavoured with coal smoke and something like a mixture of
tar and oleander blossoms. All I could see through the streaming
windows were two rows of dim houses.
The city has an area of 10 square miles; 181 miles of streets, of which 137
miles are paved; a system of waterworks that cost $2,00,000, with 77 miles of
mains.
Eight-sixty-one Jessamine Street was a decayed mansion. Thirty
yards back from the street it stood, outmerged in a splendid grove
of trees and untrimed shrubbery. A row of box bushes over-
flowed and almost hid the paling fence from sight; the gate was
kept closed by a rope noose that encircled the gate-post and the
first paling of the gate. But when you got inside you saw that 861
was a shell, a shadow, a ghost of former grandeur and excellence.
But in the story, I have not yet got inside.
When the hack had ceased from ratting and the weary
quadrupeds came to a rest I handed my jehu his fifty cents with an