O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES     77
tropical islet lay surrounded by a billowy sea of soiled matting.
Upon the gay-papered wall were those pictures that pursue the
homeless one from house to house - The Huguenot Lovers, The
First Quarrel, The Wedding Breakfast, Psyche at the Fountain.
The mantel’s chastely severe outline was ingloriously veiled behind
some pert drapery drawn rakishly askew like the sashes of the Ama-
zonian ballet. Upon it was some desolate flotsam cast aside by the
room’s marooned when a lucky sail had borne them to a fresh port
- a trifling vase or two, pictures of actresses, a medicine bottle,
some stray cards out of a deck.
One by one, as the characters of a cryptograph become explicit,
the little signs left by the furnished room’s procession of guests
developed a significance. The threadbare space in the rug in front
of the dresser told that lovely woman had marched in the throng.
Tiny finger-prints on the wall spoke of little prisoners trying to
feel their way to sun and air. A splattered stain, raying like the
shadow of a bursting bomb, witnessed where a hurled glass or
bottle had splintered with its contents against the wall. Across the
pier glass had been scrawled with a diamond in staggering letters
the name ‘Marie.’ It seemed that the succession of dwellers in the
furnished room had turned in fury - perhaps tempted beyond for-
bearance by its garish coldness - and wreaked upon it their pas-
sions. The furniture was chipped and bruised; the couch, distorted
by bursting springs, seemed a horrible monster that had been slain
during the stress of some grotesque convulsion. Some more
potent upheaval had cloven a great slice from the marble mantel.
Each plank in the floor owned its particular cant and shriek as
from a separate and individual agony. It seemed incredible that all
this malice and injury had been wrought upon the room by those
who had called it for a time their home; and yet it may have been
the cheated home instinct surviving blindly, the resentful rage at
false household gods that had kindled their wrath. A hut that is
our own we can sweep and adorn and cherish.
The young tenant in the chair allowed these thoughts to file,
soft-shod, through his mind, while there drifted into the room
furnished sounds and Furnished scents. He heard in one room a
tittering and incontinent, slack laughter; in others the monologue
of a scold, the rattling of dice, a lullaby, and one crying dully;
above him a banjo tinkled with spirit. Doors banged somewhere;
the elevated trains roared intermittently; a cat yowled miserably
upon a back fence. And he breathed the breath of the house - a
dank savour rather than a smell - a cold, musty effluvium as from