36  O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
Disconsolate, Soapy ceased his unavailing racket. Would never a
policeman lay hands on him? In his fancy the Island seemed an
unattainable Arcadia. He buttoned his thin coat against the chilling
wind.
In a cigar store he saw a well-dressed man lighting a cigar at a
swinging light. His silk umbrella he had set by the door on enter-
ing. Soapy stepped inside, secured the umbrella and sauntered off
with it slowly. The man at the cigar light followed hastily.
‘My umbrella,’ he said sternly.
‘Oh, is it?’ sneered Soapy, adding insult to petit larceny. ‘Well,
why don’t you call a policeman? I took it. Your umbrella! Why
don’t you call a cop? There stands one at the corner.’
The umbrella owner slowed his steps. Soapy did likewise, with a
presentiment that luck would again run against him. The policeman
looked at the two curiously.
‘Of course,’ said the umbrella man - ‘that is - well, you know
how these mistakes occur - I - if it’s your umbrella I hope you’ll
excuse me - I picked it up this morning in a restaurant - If you
recognize it as yours, why - I hope you’ll -’
‘Of course it’s mine,’ said Soapy viciously.
The ex-umbrella man retreated. The policeman hurried to assist
a tall blonde in an opera cloak across the street in front of a street
car that was approaching two blocks away.
Soapy walked eastward through a street damaged by improve-
ments. He hurled the umbrella wrathfully into an excavation. He
muttered against the men who wear helmets and carry clubs.
Because he wanted to fall into their clutches, they seemed to
regard him as a king who could do no wrong.
At length Soapy reached one of the avenues to the east where
the glitter and turmoil was but faint. He set his face down this
toward Madison Square, for the homing instinct survives even
when the home is a park bench.
But on an unusually quiet corner Soapy came to a standstill.
Here was an old church, quaint and rambling and gabled.
Through one violet-stained window a soft light glowed, where, no
doubt, the organist loitered over the keys, making sure of his mas-
tery of the coming Sabbath anthem. For there drifted out to
Soapy’s ears sweet music that caught and held him transfixed
against the convolutions of the iron fence.
The moon was above, lustrous and serene; vehicles and pedes-
trians were few; sparrows twittered sleepily in the eaves - for a
little while the scene might have been a country churchyard. And