O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 33
In Soapy’s opinion the Law was more benign than philanthropy.
There was an endless round of institutions, municipal and
eleemosynary, on which he might set out and receive lodging and
food accordant with the simple life. But to one of Soapy’s proud
spirit the gifs of charity are encumbered. If not in coin you must
pay in humiliation of spirit for every benefit received at the hands
of philanthropy. As Caesar had his Brutus, every bed of charity
must have its toll of a bath, every loaf of bread its compensation of
a private and personal inquisition. Wherefore it is better to be a
guest of the law, which, though conducted by rules, does not
meddle unduly with a gentleman’s private affairs
Soapy, having decided to go to the Island, at once set about
accomplishing his desire. There were many easy ways of doing
this. The pleasantest was to dine luxuriously at some expensive
restaurant; and then, after declaring insolvency, be handed over
quietly and without uproar to a policeman. An accommodating
magistrate would do the rest.
Soapy left his bench and strolled out of the square and across
the level sea of asphalt, where Broadway and Fifth Avenue flow
together. Up Broadway he turned, and halted at a glittering cafe,
where are gathered together nightly the choicest products of the
grape, the silkworm and the protoplasm.
Soapy had confidence in himself from the lowest button of his vest
upward. He was shaven, and his coat was decent and his neat black,
ready-tied four-in-hand had been presented to him by a lady mis-
ionary on Thanksgiving Day. If he could reach a table in the restau-
rant unsuspected success would be his. ‘The portion of him that
would show above the table would raise no doubt in the waiter’s
mind. A roasted mallard duck, thought Soapy, would be about the
thing - with a bottle of Chablis, and then Camembert, a demi-tasse
and a cigar. One dollar for the cigar would be enough. The total
would not be so high as to call forth any supreme manifestation of
revenge from the cafe management; and yet the meat would leave
him filled and happy for the journey to his winter refuge.
But as Soapy set foot inside the restaurant door the head
waiter’s eye fell upon his frayed trousers and decadent shoes.
Strong and ready hands turned him about and conveyed him in
silence and haste to the sidewalk and averted the ignoble fate of
the menaced mallard.
Soapy turned off Broadway. It seemed that his route to the cov-
ted Island was not to be an epicurean one. Some other way of
entering limbo must he thought of.