0 HEN R Y - 100 SELECTED STORIES     305
finger-nails with a silk handkerchief, appeared, magically, at my
side.
‘Mr. Pinkhammer,’ he said casually, giving the bulk of his atten-
tion to his forefinger, ‘may I request you to step aside with me for
a little conversation? ‘There is a room here.’
‘Certainly,’ I answered.
He conducted me into a small, private parlour. A lady and a
gentleman were there. The lady, I surmised, would have been
unusually good-looking had her features not been clouded by an
expression of keen worry and fatigue. She was of a style of figure
and possessed colouring and features that were agreeable to my
fancy. She was in a travellingdress; she fixed upon me an earnest
look of extreme anxiety, and pressed an unsteady hand to her
bosom. I think she would have started forward, but the gentleman
arrested her movement with an autboritative motion of his hand.
He then came, himself, to meet me. He was a man of forty, a little.
grey about the temples, and with a strong, thoughtful face.
‘Bellford, old man,’ he said cordially, ‘I’m glad to see you again.
Of course we know everything is all right. I warned you, you
know, that you were overdoing it. Now, you’ll go back with us,
and be yourself again in no time.’
I smiled ironically.
‘I have been "Bellforded” so often,’ I said, ‘that it has lost its
edge. Still, in the end, it may grow wearisome. Would you be will-
ing at all to entertain the hypothesis that my name is Edward
Pinkhammer, and that I never saw you before in my life?’
Before the man could reply a wailing cry came from the woman.
She sprang past his detaining arm. ‘Elwyn,’ she sobbed, and east
herself upon me, and clung tight. ‘Elwyn,’ she cried again, ‘don’t
break my heart. I am your wife - call my name once - just once! I
could see you dead rather than this way.’
I unwound her arms respectfully, but firmly.
‘Madam,’ I said severely, ‘pardon me if I suggest that you
accept a resemblance too precipitately. It is a pity,’ I went on,
with an amused laugh, as the thought occurred to me, ‘that this
Bellford and I could not be kept side by side upon the same shelf
like tartrates of sodium and antimony for purposes of identifica-
tion. In order to understand the allusion,’ I concluded airily, ‘it
may he necessary for you to keep an eye on the proceedings of
the Druggists’ National Convention.’
‘The lady turned to her companion, and grasped his arm.
‘What is it, Doctor Volney? Oh, what is it?’ she moaned.