O HENRY- 100 SELECTED STORIES   27
But what was this? Instead of the customary humble and grate-
ful thanks from the non-escorted one there was to be perceived a
high-poised head, a prideful dimpling at the corners of a broad
mouth, and almost a sparkle in a dull brown eye.
‘Thanks, Anna,’ said Maggie; ‘bur you and Jimmy needn’t
bother to-night. I’ve a gentleman friend that’s coming ’round to
escort me to the hop.’
The comely Anna pounced upon her friend, shook her, chided
and beseeched her. Maggie Toole catch a fellow! Plain, dear,
loyal, unattractive Maggie, so sweet as a chum, so unsought for a
two-step or a moonlit bench in the little park. How was it? When
did it happen? Who was it?
‘You’ll see to-night,’ said Maggie, flushed with the wine of the
first gapes she had gathered in Cupid’s vineyard. ‘He’s swell all
right. He’s two inches taller than Jimmy, and an up-to-date
dresser. I’ll introduce him, Anna, just as soon as we get to the hall.’
Anna and ,Jimmy were among the first Clover Leafs to arrive
that evening. Anna’s eyes were brightly fixed upon the door of the
hall to catch the first glimpse of her friend’s ‘catch.’
At 8.30 Miss Toole swept into the hall with her escort. Quickly
her triumphant eye discovered her chum under the wing of her
faithful Jimmy’
Oh., gee!’ cried Anna, ‘Mag ain’t made a hit - oh, no! Swell
fellow? Well, I guess! Style? Look at ’um.’
‘Go as far as you like,’ said Jimmy, with sandpaper in his voice.
‘Cop him out if you want him. These new guys always win out
with the push. Don’t mind me. He don’t squeeze all the limes, I
guess. Huh!’
‘Shut up, Jimmy. You know what I mean. I’m glad for Mag!
First fellow she ever had. Oh, here they come.’
Across the floor Maggie sailed like a coquettish yacht convoyed
by a stately cruiser. And truly, her companion justified the
encomiums of the faithful chum. He stood two inches taller than
the average Give and Take athlete; his dark hair curled; his eyes
and his teeth flashed whenever he bestowed his frequent smiles.
The young men of the Clover Leaf Club pinned not their faith to
the graces of person as much as they did to its prowess, its
achievements in hand-to-hand conflicts, and its preservation from
the legal duress that constantly menaced it. ‘The member of the
association who would bind a paper-box maiden to his conquering
chariot scorned to employ Beau Brummel airs. They were not
considered honourable methods of warfare. The swelling biceps,