22 O HENRY  - 100 SELECTED STORIES
true happiness. If a home is happy it cannot fit too close - let the
dresser collapse and become a billiard table; let the mantel turn to
a rowing machine, the escritoire to a spare bedchamber, the wash-
stand to an upright piano; let the four walls come together, if they
will, so you and your Delia are between. But if home be the other
kind, let it be wide and long - enter you at he Golden Gate, hang
your hat on Hatteras, your cape on Cape Horn, and go out by
Labrador.
Joe was painting in the class of the great Magister - you know
his fame. His fees are high; his lessons are light - his high-lights
have brought him renown. Delia was studying under Rosenstock -
you know his repute as a disturber of the piano keys.
They were mighty happy as long as their money lasted. So is
every - but I will not be cynical. Their aims were very clear and
defined. Joe was to become capable very soon of turning out pic-
tures that old gentlemen with thin side-whiskers and thick pocket-
books would sandbag one another in his studio for the privilege of
buying. Delia was to become familiar and then eontemptuous with
Music, so that when she saw the orchestra seats and boxes unsold
she could have sore throat and lobster in a private dining-room
and refuse to go on the stage.
But the best, in my opinion, was the home life in the little flat -
the ardent, voluble chats after the day’s study; the cosy dinners
and fresh, light breakfasts; the interchange of ambitions - ambi-
ions interwoven each with other’s or else inconsiderable - the
mutual help and inspiration; and - overlook my artlessness -
stuffed olives and cheese sandwiches at 11p.m.
But after awhile Art flagged. It sometimes does, even if some
switchman doesn’t flag it. Everything going out and nothing
coming in, as the vulgarians say. Money was lacking to pay Mr.
Magister and Herr Rosenstock heir prices. When one loves one’s
Art no service seems too hard. So, Delia said she must give music
lessons to keep the chafing dish bubbling.
For two or three days she went out canvassing for pupils. One
evening she came home elated.
'Joe, dear,’ she said gleefully, ‘I’ve a pupil. And, oh, the loveliest
people! General - General A. B. Pinkney’s daughter - on Seventy-
first Streer. Such a splendid house, Joe - you ought to see the
fronr door! Byzantine I think you would call it. And inside! Oh,
Joe, I never saw anything like it before.
‘My pupil is his daughter Clementina. I dearly love her already.
She’s a delicate thing - dresser always in white; and the sweetest,