312      O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
I must tell you how I came to be in Nashville, and assure you
the digression brings as much tedium to me as it does to you. I
was travelling elsewhere on my own business, but I had a com-
mission from a Northern literary magazine to stop over there and
establish a personal connection between the publication and one
of its contributors, Azalea Adair.
Adair (there was no clue to the personality except the handwrit-
ing) had sent in some essays (lost art!) and poems that had made
the editors swear approvingly over their one o’clock luncheon. So
they had commissioned me to round up said Adair and corner by
contract his or her output at two cents a word before some other
publisher offered her ten or twenty.
At nine o’clock the next morning, after my chicken livers en bro-
chette (try them if you can find that hotel, I stayed out into the
drizzle, which was still on for an unlimited run. At the first corner
I came upon Uncle Caesar. He was a stalwart negro, older than the
pyramids, with grey wool and a face that reminded me of Brutus,
and a second afterwards of the late King Cetewayo. He wore the
most remarkable coat that I ever had seen or expect to see. It
reached to his ankles and had once been a Confederate grey in
colours. But rain and sun and age had so variegated it that Joseph’s
coat, beside it, wold have faded to a pale monochrome. I must
linger with that coat for it has to do with the story - the story that
is so long in coming, because you can hardly expect anything to
happen in Nashville.
Once it must have been the military coat of an officer. The cape
of it had vanished, but all adown its front it had been frogged and
tasselled magnificently. But now the frogs and tassels were gone.
In their stead had been patiently stitched ( surmised by some sur-
viving ‘black mammy’) new frogs made of cunningly twisted
common hempen twine. This twine was frayed and dishevelled. It
must have been added to the coat as a substitute for vanished
splendours, with tasteless but painstaking devotion, for it followed
faithfully the curves of the long-missing frogs. And, to complete
the comedy and pathos of the garment, all its buttons were gone
save one. The second button from the top alone remained. The
coat was fastened by other twine strings tied through the button-
holes and other holes rudely pierced in the opposite side. There
was never such a weird garment so fantastically bedecked and of so
many mottled hues. The lone button was the size of a half-dollar;
made of yellow horn and sewed on with coarse twine.
This negro stood by a carriage so old that Ham himself might