O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES   311
I began to hope. But then he began on family trees, and demon-
strated that Adam was only a third cousin of a collateral branch of
the Caswell family. Genealogy disposed of, he took up, to my dis-
taste, his private family matters. He spoke of his wife, traced her
descent back to Eve, and profanely denied any possible rumour
that she may have had relations in the land of Nod.
By this time I began to suspect that he was trying to obscure by
noise the fact that he had ordered the drinks, on the chance that I
would be bewildered into paying for them. But when they were
down he crashed a silver dollar loudly upon the bar. ‘Then, of
course, another serving was obligatory. And when I had paid for
that I took leave of him brusquely; for I wanted no more of him
But before I had obtained my release he had prated loudly of an
income that his wife received, and showed a handful of silver
money.
When I got my key at the desk the clerk said to me courteously;
‘If that man Caswell has annoyed you, and if you would like to
make a complaint, we will have him ejected. He is a nuisance, a
loafer, and without any known means of support, although he
seems to have some money most the time. But we don’t seem to
be able to hit upon any means of throwing him out legally.’
‘Why, no,’ said I, after some reflection; ‘I don’t see my way
clear to making a complaint. But I would like to place myself on
record as asserting that I do not care for his company. Your town,’
I continued, ‘seems to be a quiet one. What manner of entertain-
ment, adventure, or excitement have you to offer to the stranger
within your gates?’
‘Well, sir,’ said the clerk, ‘there will be a show here next Thurs-
day. It is - I’ll look it up and have the announcement sent up to
your room with the ice water. Good night.’
After I went up to my room I looked out of the window. It was
only about ten o’clock, but I looked upon a silent town. The driz-
zle continued, spangled with dim lights, as far apart as currants in
a cake sold at the Ladies’ Exchange.
‘A quiet place,’ I said to myself, as my first shoe struck the ceil-
ing of the occupant of the room beneath mine. ‘Nothing of the
life here that gives colour and variety to the cities in the East and
West. Just a good, ordinary, humdrum business town.’
Nashville occupies a foremost place among the manufacturing centres of the
country. It is the fifth boot and shoe market in the United States, the largest
candy and cracker manufacturing city in the South, and does an enormous
wholesale dry goods, grocery and drug business.