 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES  303
could be served almost alfresco in a tropic array of screening flora.
Quiet and luxury and a perfect service made it an ideal place in
which to take Iuncheon or refreshment. One afternoon I was there
picking my way to a table among the ferns when I felt my sleeve
caught.
‘Mr. Bellford!’ exclaimed an amazingly sweet voice.
I turned quickly to see a lady seated alone - a lady of about
thirty, with exceedingly handsome eyes, who looked at me as
though I had been her very dear friend.
‘You were about to pass me,’ she said accusingly. ‘Don’t tell me
you did no know me. Why should we not shake hands - at least
once in fifteen years?’’
I shook hands with her at once. I took a chair opposite her at
the table. I summoned with my eyebrows a hovering waiter. The
lady was philandering with an orange ice. I ordered a  creme de
menthe. Her hair was reddish bronze. You could not look at it,
because you could not look away from her eyes. But you were con-
scious of it as you are conscious of sunset while you look into the
profundities of a wood at twilight.
‘Are you sure you know me?’ I asked.
‘No,’ she said, smiling, ‘I was never sure of that.’
‘What would you think,’ I said, a little anxiously, ‘if I were to
tell you that my name is Edward Pinkhammer, from Cornopolis,
Kansas.’
‘What would I think?’ she repeated, with a merry glance. ‘Why,
that you had not brought Mrs. Bellford to New York with you, of
course. I do wish you had. I would have liked to see Marian.’ Her
voice lowered slightly - ‘You haven’t changed much, Elwyn.’
I felt her wonderful eyes searching mine and my face more
closely.
‘Yes, you have,’ she amended, and there was a soft, exultant note
in her latest tones; ‘I see it now. You haven’t forgotten. You
haven’t forgotten for a year or a day or an hour. I told you you
never could.’
I poked my straw anxiously in the creme de menthe
‘I’m sure I beg your pardon,’ I said, a little uneasy at her gaze
‘But that is just the trouble. I have forgotten. I’ve forgotten
everything.’
She flouted my denial. She laughed deliciously at something she
seemed to see in my face.
‘I’ve heard of you at times,’ she went on. ‘You’re quite a big
lawyer out West - Denver, isn’t it, or Los Angeles? Marian must