O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    37
the anthem that the organist played cemented Soapy to the iron
fence, for he had known it well in the days when his life contained
such things as mothers and roses and ambitions and friends and
immaculate thoughts and collars.
The conjunction of Soapy’s receptive state of mind and the
influences about the old church wrought a sudden and wonderful
change in his soul. He viewed with swift horror the pit into which
he had tumbled, the degraded days, unworthy desires, dead hopes,
wrecked faculties and base motives that made up his existence.
And also in a moment his heart responded thrillingly to this
novel mood. An instantaneous and strong impulse moved him to
battle with his desperate fate. He would pull himself out of the
mire; he would make a man of himself again; he would conquer
the evil that had taken possession of him. There was time; he was
comparatively young yet; he would resurrect his old eager ambi-
tions and pursue them without faltering. Those solemn but sweet
organ notes had set up a revolution in him. To-morrow he would
go into the roaring down-town district and find work. A fur
importer had once offered him a place as driver. He would find
him to-morrow and ask fur the position. He would be somebody
in the world. Te would -
Soapy felt a hand laid on his arm. Te looked quickly around
into the broad face of a policeman.
‘What are you doin’ here?’ asked the officer.
‘Nothin’,’ said Soapy.
‘Then cone along,’ said the policeman.
‘Three months on the Island,’ said the Magistrate in the Police
Court the next morning.
VIII
Memories of a yellow Dog
I DON’T SUPPOSE it will knock any of you people off your perch to
read a contribution from an animal. Mr. Kipling and a good many
others have demonstrated the fact that animals can express them-
selves in remunerative English, and no magazine goes to press
nowadays without an animal story in it, except the old-style
monthlies that are still running pictures of Bryan and the Mont
Pelee horror.
But you needn’t look for any stuck-up literature in my piece,