288 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
‘I’m glad I come across you, mister,’ said Haylocks. ‘How’d you
like to play a game or two of seven-up? I’ve got the keerds.’
He fished them out of Noah’s valise - a rare, inimitable deck,
greasy with bacon suppers and grimy with the soil of cornfields.
‘Bunco Harry’ laughed loud and briefly.
‘Not for me, sport,’ he said firmly. ‘I don’t go against that
make-up of yours for a cent. But I still say you’ve overdone it. The
Reubs haven’t dressed like that since ‘79. I doubt if you could
work Brooklyn for a key-winding watch with that lay-out.’
‘Oh, you needn’t think I ain’t got the money,’ boasted Hay-
locks. He drew forth a tightly rolled mass or bills as large as a
teacup, and laid it on the table.
‘Got that for my share of grandmother’s farm,’ he announced.
‘There’s $950 in that roll. Thought I’d come into the city and
look around for a likely business to go into.’
‘Bunco Harry’ took up the roll of money and looked at it with
almost respect in his smiling eyes.
‘I’ve seen worse,’ he said critically. ‘But you’ll never do it in
them clothes. You want to get light tan shoes and a black suit and
a straw hat with a coloured band, and talk a good deal about Pitts-
burg and freight differentials, and drink sherry for breakfast in
order to work off phony stuff like that.’
‘What’s his line?’ asked two or three shifty-eyed men of ‘Bunco
Harry’ after Haylocks had gathered up his impugned money and
departed.
‘The queer, I guess,’ said Harry. ‘Or else he’s one of Jerome’s
men. Or some guy with a new graft. He’s too much hayseed. Maybe
that his - I wonder now - oh no, it couldn’t have been real money.’
Haylocks wandered on. ‘Thirst probably assailed him again, for
he dived into a dark groggery on a side-street and bought beer.
Several sinister fellows hung upon one end of the bar. At first sight
of him their eyes brightened; but when his insistent and exagger-
ated rusticity became apparent their expressions changed to wary
suspicion.
Haylocks swung his valise across the bar.
‘Keep that awhile for me, mister,’ he said, chewing at the end of
a virulent claybank cigar. ‘I’ll be back after I knock around a spell.
And keep your eye on it, for there’s $950 inside of it, though
maybe you wouldn’t think so to look at me.’
Somewhere outside a phonograph struck up a band piece, and
Haylocks was off for it, his coat-tail buttons flopping in the middle
of his back.