20 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
miles away and you won’t even twinkle once. But you kept where I
could see you most of the time up there when there wasn’t any-
thing else but darkness to look at, didn’t you? ... Millions of
miles.... Good-bye, Billy Jackson.'
Clara, the coloured maid, found the door locked at ten the next
day, and they forced it open. Vinegar, and the slapping of wrists
and even burnt feathers, proving of no avail, someone ran to
'phone for an ambulance.
In due time it backed up to the door with much gong-clanging,
and the capable young medico, in his white linen coat, ready,
active, confident, with his smooth face half debonair, half grim,
danced up the steps.
'Ambulance call to 49,’ he said briefly. ‘What’s the trouble?’
‘Oh yes, doctor,’ sniffed Mrs. Parker, as though her trouble that
there should be trouble in the house was the greater. ‘I can’t think
what can be the matter with her. Nothing we could do would
bring her to. It’s a young woman, a Miss Elsie - yes, a Miss Elsie
Leeson. Never before in my house -’
‘What room?’ cried the doctor in a terrible voice, to which Mrs.
Parker was a stranger.
‘The skylight room. It -’
Evidently the ambulance doctor was familiar wih the location
of skylight rooms. He was gone up the stairs, four at a time. Mrs.
Parker followed slowly, as her dignity demanded.
On the first landing she met him coming back bearing the
astronomer in his arms. He stopped and let loose the practiced
scalpel of his tongue, not loudly. Gradually Mrs. Parker crumpled
as a stiff garment that slips down from a nail. Ever afterwards
there remained crumples in her mind and body. Sometimes her
curious roomers would ask her what the doctor said to her.
‘Let that be,’ she would answer. ‘If I can get forgiveness for
having heard it I will be satisfied.’
The ambulance physician strode with his burden through the
pack of hounds thar follow the curiosity chase, and even they fell
back along the sidewalk abashed, for his face was that of one who
bears his own dead.
They noticed that he did not lay down upon the bed prepared
for it in the ambulance the form that he carried, and all that he
said was: ‘Drive like h - 1, Wilson,’ to the driver.
Thar is all. Is it a story? In the next morning’s paper I saw a
little news item, and the last sentence of it may help you (as it
helped me) to weld the incidents together.