320       O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
As the doctor was moving off I heard Uncle Caesar’s voice
inside: ‘Did he git bofe of dem two dollars from you, Mis’ Zalea?’
‘Yes, Caesar,’ I heard Azalea Adair answer weakly. And then I
went in and concluded business negotiations with our contributor.
I assumed the responsibility of advancing fifty dollars, putting it as
a necessary formality in binding our bargain. And then Uncle
Caesar drove me back to the hotel.
Here ends all the story as far as I can testify as a witness. The
rest must be only bare statements of facts.
At about six o’clock I went out For a stroll. Uncle Caesar was at
his corner. He threw open the door of his carriage, flourished his
duster and began his depressing formula: ‘Step right in, suh. Fifty
cents to anywhere in the city - hack’s puffickly clean, suh - jus’ got
back from a funeral -’
And then he recognized me. I think his eyesight was getting
bad. His coat had taken on a few more faded shades of colour, the
twine sings were more frayed and ragged, the last remaining
button - the button of yellow horn - was gone. A motley descen-
dant of kings was Uncle Caesar.
About two hours later I saw an excited crowd besieging the
front of a drug store. In a desert where nothing happens this was
manna; so I edged my way inside. On an extemporized couch of
empty boxes and chairs was stretched the mortal corporeality of
Major Wentworth Caswell. A doctor was testing him for the
immortal ingredient. His decision was that it was conspicuous by
its absence.
The erstwhile Major had been found dead on a dark street and
brought by curious and ennuied citizens to the drug store. The
late human being had been engaged in terrific battle - the details
showed that. Loafer and reprobate though he had been, he had
been also a warrior. But he had lost. His hands were yet clenched
so tightly that his fingers would not be opened. The gentle citi-
zens who had known him stood about and searched their vocabu-
laries to find some good words, if it were possible, to speak of him.
One kind-looking an said, after much thought: ‘When "Cas”
was about fo’teen he was one of the best spellers in school.’
While I stood there the fingers of the right hand of ‘the man
that was,’ which hung down the side of a white pine box, relaxed,
and dropped something at my feet. I covered it with one foot qui-
etly, and a little later on I picked it up and pocketed it. I reasoned
that in his last struggle his hand must have seized that object
unwittingly and held it in a death-grip.