332       O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
upon the virulent green bench. He always yielded gracefully when
he did yield.
Dawe snapped at the cigar as a kingfisher darts at a sunperch, or
a girl pecks at a chocolate cream.
‘I have just -’ began the editor.
‘Oh, I know; don’t finish,’ said Dawe. ‘Give me a match. You
have just ten minutes to spare. How did you manage to get past
my office-boy and invade my sanctum? There he goes now,
throwing his club at a dog that couldn’t read the "Keep off the
Grass” signs.’
‘How goes the writing?’ asked the editor.
‘Look at me,’ said Dawe, ‘for your answer. Now don’t put on
that embarrassed, friendly-but-honest look and ask me why I
don’t get a job as a wine agent or a cab-driver. I’m in the fight to
a finish. I know I can write good fiction and I’ll force you fellows
to admit it yet. I’ll make you change the spelling of ‘regrets” to
"c-h-e-g-u-e" before I’m done with you.’
Editor Westbrook gazed through his nose-glasses with a sweetly
sorrowful, omniscient, sympathetic, sceptical expression - the
copyrighted expression of the editor beleaguered by the unavailable
contributor.
‘Have you read the last story I sent you - "The Alarum of the
Soul"?’ asked Dawe.
‘Carefully. I hesitated over that story, Shack, really I did. It had
some good points. I was writing you a letter to send with it when
it goes back to you. I regret -’
‘Never mind the regrets,’ said Dawe grimly. ‘There’s neither
salve nor sting in ’em any more. What I want to know is why.
Come, now; out with the good points first.’
‘The story,’ said Westbrook deliberately, after a suppressed
sigh, ‘is written around an almost original plot. Characterization -
the best you have done. Construction - almost as good, except for
a few weak joints which might be strengthened by a few changes
and touches. It was a good story, except -’
‘I can write English, can’t I?’ interrupted Dawe.
‘I have always told you,’ said the editor, ‘that you had a style.’
‘Then the trouble is the -’
‘Same old thing,’ said Editor Westbrook. ‘You work up to your
climax like an artist. And then you turn yourself into a photogra-
pher. I don’t know what form of obstinate madness possesses you,
Shack, but that is what you do with everything that you write.
No, I will retract the comparison with the photographer. Now