O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    35
victim and the contiguity of the conscientious cop encouraged him
to believe that he would soon feel the pleasant official clutch upon
his arm that would ensure his winter quarters on the right little,
tight little isle.
Soapy straightened the lady missionary’s ready-made tie,
dragged his shrinking cuffs into the open, set his hat at a killing
cant and sidled toward the young woman. He made eyes at her,
was taken with sudden coughs and ‘hems,’ smiled, smirked and
went brazenly through the impudent and contemptible litany of,
the ‘masher.’ With half an eye Soapy saw that the policeman was
watching him fixedly. The young woman moved away a few steps,
and again bestowed her absorbed attention upon the shaving
mugs. Soapy followed, boldly stepping to her side, raised his hat
and said:
‘Ah there, Bedelia! Don’t you want to come and play in my
yard?’
The policeman was still looking. The persecuted young woman
had but to beckon a finger and Soapy would be practically ea route
for his insular haven. Already he imagined he could feel the cosy
warmth of the station-house. The young woman faced him and,
stretching out a hand, caught Soapy’s coat-sleeve.
‘Sure, Mike,’ she said joyfully, ‘if you’ll blow me to a pail of
suds. I’d have spoke to you sooner, but the cop was watching.’
With the young woman playing the clinging ivy to his oak
Soapy walked past the policeman, overcome with gloom. He
seemed doomed to liberty.
At the next corner he shook off his companion and ran. He
halted in the district where by night are found the lightest streets,
hearts, vows and librettos. Women in furs and men in greatcoats
moved gaily in the wintry air. A sudden fear seized Soapy that some
dreadful enchantment had rendered him immune to arrest. The
thought brought a little of panic upon it, and when he came upon
another policeman lounging grandly in front of a transplendent
theatre he caught at the immediate straw of ‘disorderly conduct.
On the sidewalk Soapy began to yell drunken gibberish at the
top of his harsh voice. He danced, howled, raved and otherwise
disturbed the welkin.
The policeman twirled his club, turned his back to Soapy and
remarked to a citizen:
‘Tis one of them Yale lads celebratin’ he goose egg they give
to the Hartford College. Noisy; but no harm. We’ve instructions
to lave them be.'