336 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
know how devoted and loving Louise has always been. She thinks
I’m the only genuine preparation on the market that bears the old
doctor’s signature. She’s been fonder and more faithful than ever,
since I’ve been cast for the neglected genius part.’
‘Indeed, she is a charming and admirable life companion,’
agreed the editor. ‘I remember what inseparable friends she and
Mrs. Westbrook once were. We are both lucky chaps, Shack, to
have such wives. You must bring Mrs. Dawe up some evening
soon, and we’ll have one of those informal chafing-dish suppers
that we used to enjoy so much.’
‘Later,’ said Dawe. ‘When I get another shirt. And now I’ll tell
you my scheme. When I was about to leave home after breakfast -
if you can call tea and oatmeal breakfast - Louise told me she was
going to visit her aunt in Eighty-ninth Street. She said she would
return home at three o’clock. She is always on time to a minute. It
is now -’
Dawe glanced toward the editor’s watch pocket.
‘Twenty-seven minutes to three,’ said Westbrook, scanning his
timepiece.
‘We have just enough time,’ said Dawe. ‘We will go to my flat
at once. I will write a note, address it to her and leave it on the
table where she will see it as she enters the door. You and I will be
in the dining-room concealed by the portieres. In that note I’ll say
that I have fled from her for ever with an affinity who understands
the needs of my artistic soul as she never did. When she reads it
we will observe her actions and hear her words. Then we will
know which theory is the correct one - yours or mine.’
‘Oh, never!’ exclaimed the editor, shaking his head. ‘That would
be inexcusably cruel. I could not consent to have Mrs. Dawe’s
feelings played upon in such a manner.’
‘Brace up,’ said the writer. ‘I guess I think as much of her as you
do. It’s for her benefit as well as mine. I’ve got to get a market for
my stories in some way. It won’t hurt Louise. She’s healthy and
sound. Her heart goes as strong as a ninety-eight-cent watch. It’ll
last for only a minute, and then I’ll step out and explain to her.
You really owe it to me to give me the chance, Westbrook.’
Editor Westbrook at length yielded, though but half willingly.
And in the half of him that consented lurked the vivisectionist that
is in all of us.
Let him who has not used the scalpel rise and stand in his place.
Pity ’tis that there are not enough rabbits and guinea-pigs to go
around.