0 HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    11
awaited her husband. Supper was cooling on the table. Its heat
went into Mrs. McCaskey.
At nine Mr. McCaskey came. He carried his coat on his arm and
his pipe in his teeth; and he apologized for disturbing the boarders
on the steps as he selected spots of stone between them on which
to set his size 9, width Ds.
As he opened the door of his room he received a surprise.
Instead of the usual stove-lid or potato-masher for him to dodge,
came only words.
Mr. McCaskey reckoned that the benign May moon had soft-
ened the breast of his spouse.
‘TI heard ye,’ came the oral substitutes for kitchenware. ‘Ye can
apollygize to riff-raff of the steers for settin’ yer unhandy feet on
the tails of their frocks, but ye’d walk on the neck of yer wife the
length of a clothes-line without so much as a ‘Kiss me fut, and
I’m sure it’s that long from rubberin’ out the windy for ye and the
victuals cold such as there’s money to buy after drinkin’ up yer
wages at Gallegher’s every Saturday evenin’, and the gas man here
twice to-day for his.’
‘Woman!’ said Mr. MeCaskey, dashing his coat and hat upon a
chair, ‘the noise of ye is an insult to me appetite. When ye run
down politeness ye take the mortar from between the bricks of the
foundations of society. ‘T’is no more than exercisin’ the acrimony
of a gentleman when ye ask the dissent of ladies blockin’ the way
for steppin’ between them. Will ye bring the pig’s face of ye out of
the windy and see to the food?’
Mrs. McCaskey arose heavily and went to the stove. There was
something in her manner that warned Mr. McCaskey. When the
corners of her mouth went down suddenly like a barometer it usually
foretold a fall of crockery and tinware.
‘Pig’s face, is it?’ said Mrs. McCaskey, and hurled a stewpan full
of bacon and turnips at her lord.
Mr. McCaskey was no novice at repartee. He knew what should
follow he entree. On the table was a roast sirloin of pork, gar-
nished with shamrocks. He retorted with this, and drew the
appropriate return of a bread pudding in an earthen dish. A hunk
of Swiss cheese accurately thrown by her husband struck Mrs.
McCaskey below one eye. When she replied with a well-aimed
coffee-pot full of a hot, black, semi-fragrant liquid the battle
according to courses, should have ended.
But Mr. McCaskey was no 50 cent table d’hoter. Let cheap
Bohemians consider coffee the end, if they would. Let them make