310      O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
have been able to throw a ball into one of them at five paces dis-
tant. Bu, although a terrible battle had raged and was still raging,
the enemy had not suffered. Bright, new, imposing, capacious,
untouched, they stood. But shades of Jefferson Brick! the tile
floor - the beautiful tile floor! I could not avoid thinking of the
battle of Nashville, and trying to draw, as is my foolish habit,
some deductions about hereditary markmanship.
Here I first saw Major (by misplaced courtesy) Wentworth
Caswell. I knew him for a type the moment my eyes suffered from
the sight of him. A rat has no geographical habitat. My old friend,
A. Tennyson, said, as he so well said almost everything:
‘Prophet, curse me the blabbing lip,
And curse me the British vermin, the rat.’
Let us regard the word ‘British’ as interchangeable a lib. A rat
Is a rat,
This man was hunting about the hotel lobby like a starved dog
that had forgotten where he had buried a bone. He had a face of
great acreage, red, pulpy, and with a kind of sleepy massiveness
like that of Buddha. He possessed one single virtue - he was very
smoothly shaven. The mark of the beast is not indelible upon a
man until he goes about with a stubble. I think hat if he had not
used his razor that day I would have repulsed his advances, and the
criminal calendar of the world would have been spared the addi-
tion of one murder.
I happened to be standing within five feet of a cuspidor when
Major Caswell opened fire upon it. I had been observant enough
to perceive that the attacking force was using Gatlings instead of
squirrel rifles; so I side-stepped so promptly that the major seized
the opportunity to apologize to a non-combatant. He had the
blabbing lip. In four minutes he had become my friend and had
dragged me to the bar:.
I desire to interpolate here that I am a Southerner. But I am not
one by profession or trade. I eschew the string tie, the slouch hat,
the Prince Albert, the number of hales of cotton destroyed by
Sherman, and plug chewing. When the orchestra plays Dixie I do
not cheer. I slide a little lower on the leather-cornered seat and,
well, order another Wurzburger and wish that Longstreet had -
but what’s the use?
Major Caswell banged the bar with his fist, and the first gun at
Fort Sumter re-echoed. When he fired the last one at Appomattox