 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
sat, comely, smoothed-faced, hard, indomitable, good-natured,
upon a stool.
‘Ikey,’ said he, when his friend had fetched his mortar and sat
opposite, grinding gum benzoin to a powder, ‘get busy with your
ear. It’s drugs for me if you’ve got the line I need.'
Ikey scanned the countenance of Mr. McGowan for the usual
evidences of conflict, but found none.
‘Take your coat off,’ he ordered. ‘I guess already that you have
been stuck in the ribs with a knife. I have many times told you
those Dagoes would do you up.’
Mr. McGowan smiled. ‘Not them,’ he said. ‘Not any Dagoes.
But you’ve located the diagnosis all right enough - it’s under my
coat, near the ribs. Say! lkey - Rosy and me are goin’ to run away
and get married to-night.’
ikey’s left forefinger was doubled over the edge of the mortar,
holding it steady. He gave it a wild rap with the pestle, but felt
it not. Meanwhile Mr. McGowan’s smile faded to a look of
perplexed gloom.
‘That is,’ he continued, ‘if she keeps in the notion until the time
comes. We’ve been layin’ pipes for the gateway for two weeks.
One day she says she will; the same evenin’ she says nixy. We’ve
agreed on to-night, and Rosy’s stuck to the affirmative this time
for two whole days. But it’s five hours yet till the time, and I’m
afraid she’ll stand me up when it comes to the scratch.’
‘You said you wanted drugs,’ remarked Ikey.
Mr. McGowan looked ill at ease and harassed - a condition
opposed to his usual line of demeanour. He made a patent-medi-
cine almanac into a roll and fitted it with unprofitable carefulness
about his finger.
‘I wouldn’t have this double handicap make a false start to-night
for a million,’ he said. ‘I’ve got a little flat up in Harlem all ready.
with chrysanthemums on the table and a kettle ready tn boil. And
I’ve engaged a pulpit pounder to be ready at his house for us at
9.30. It’s got to come off. And if Rosy don’t change her mind
again!’ - Mr. McGowan ceased, a prey to his doubts.
‘I don’t see then yet,’ said Ikey shortly, ‘what makes it that you
talk of drugs, or what I can be doing about it.’
‘Old man Riddle don’t like me a little bit,’ went on the uneasy
suitor, bent upon marshalling his arguments. ‘For a week he hasn’t
let Rosy step outside the door with me. If it wasn’t for losin’ a
boarder they’d have bounced me long ago. I’m makin’ $20 a week
and she’ll never regret flyin’ the coop with Chunk McGowan.’