302  O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
time or comportment. I dined in weird cabarets, at weirder tables
d’hote to the sound of Hungarian music and the wild shouts of
mercurial artists and sculptors. Or, again, where the night life
quivers in the electric glare like a kinetoscopic picture, and the
millinery of the world, and its jewels, and the ones whom they
adorn, and the men who make all three possible are met for good
cheer and the spectacular effect. And among all these scenes that I
have mentioned I learned one thing that I never knew before. And
that is that the key to liberty is not in the hands of Licence, but
Convention holds it. Comity has a toll-gate at which you must
pay, or you may not enter the land of Freedom. In all the glitter,
the seeming disorder, the parade, the abandon, I saw this law,
unobtrusive, yet like iron, prevail. Therefore, in Manhattan you
must obey these unwritten laws, and then you will be freest of the
free. If you decline to be bound by them, you put on shackles.
Sometimes, as my mood urged me, I would seek the stately,
softly murmuring palm-rooms, redolent with high-born life and
delicate restraint, in which to dine. Again I would go down to the
waterways in steamers packed with vociferous, bedecked,
unchecked, love-making clerks and shop-girls to their crude plea-
sures on the island shores. And there was always Broadway - glis-
tening, opulent, wily, varying, desirable Broadway - growing upon
one like an opium habit,
One afternoon as I entered my hotel a stout man with a big nose
and a black moustache blocked my way in the corridor. When I
would have passed around him, he greeted me with offensive
familiarity.
‘Hallo, Bellford!’ he cried loudly. ‘What the deuce are you
doing in New York? Didn’t know anything could drag you away
from that old book den of yours. Is Mrs. B. along or is this a little
business run alone, eh?’
‘You have made a mistake, sir,’ I said coldly, releasing my hand
from his grasp. ‘My name is Pinkhammer. You will excuse me.'
The man dropped to one side, apparently astonished. As I
walked to the clerk’s desk I heard him call to a bell-boy and say
something about telegraph blanks.
‘You will give me my bill,’ I said to the clerk, ‘and have my bag-
gage brought down in half an hour. I do not care to remain where
I am annoyed by confidence men.’
I moved that afternoon to another hotel, a sedate, old-fashioned
one on lower Fifth Avenue.
There was a restaurant a little way off Broadway where one