O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES     317
two pieces and pasted together again with a strip of blue tissue-
paper. It was one of the bills I had given the piratical negro - there
was no doubt of it.
‘Go up to Mr. Baker’s store on the corner, Impy,’ she said,
handing the girl the dollar bill, ‘and get a Quarter of a pound of tea
- the kind he always sends me - and ten cents worth of sugar
cakes. Now, hurry. The supply of tea in the house happens to be
exhausted,’ she explained to me.
Impy left by the back way. Before the serape of her hard, bare
feet had died away on the back porch, a wild shriek - I was sure it
was hers - filled the hollow house. Then the deep, gruff tones of
an angry man’s voice mingled with the girl’s further squeals and
unintelligible words.
Azalea Adair rose without surprise or emotion and disappeared.
For two minutes I heard the hoarse rumble of the man’s voice;
then something like an oath and a light scuffle, and she returned
calmly to her chair.
‘This is a roomy house,’ she said, ‘and I have a tenant for part of
it. I am sorry to have to rescind my invitation to tea. It was impos-
sible to get the kind I always use at the store. Perhaps to-morrow
Mr. Baker will be able to supply me.’
I was sure that Impy had not had time to leave the house. I
inquired concerning street-car lines and took my leave. After I was
well on my way I remembered that I had not learned Azalea
Adair’s name. But to-morrow would do.
‘That same day I started in on the course of iniquity that this
uneventful city forced upon me. I was in the town only two days,
but in that time I managed to lie shamelessly by telegraph, and to
be an accomplice - after the fact, if that is the correct legal term -
to a murder.
As I rounded the corner nearest my hotel the Afrite coachman
of the polychromatic, nonpareil coat seized me, swung open the
dungeony door of his peripatetic sarcophagus, flirted his feather.
duster and began his ritual: ‘Step right in, boss. Carriage is clean -
jus’ got back from a funeral. Fifty cents to any -'
And then he knew me and grinned broadly. ‘ ’Scuse me, boss;
you is de gen’l’man what rid out with me dis mawnin. ’Thank you
kindly, suh.’
I am going out to 861 again to-morrow afternoon at three,’ said
I, ‘and if you will be here, I’ll let you drive me. So you know Miss
Adair?’ I concluded, thinking of my dollar bill.
‘I belonged to her father, Judge Adair, suh,’ he replied.