10 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
I believed in him. How was it? ‘The men that breed from them
they traffic up and down, but cling to their cities’ hem as a child to
the mother’s gown.'
Not so E. Rushmore Coglan. With the whole world for his -
My meditations were interrupted by a tremendous noise and
conflict in another part of the cafe. I saw above the heads of the
seated patrons E. Rushmore Coglan and a stranger to me engaged
in terrific battle. They fought between the tables like Titans, and
glasses crashed, and men caught their hats up and were knocked
down, and a brunette screamed, and a blonde began to sing ‘Teas-
ing.’
My cosmopolite was sustaining the pride and reputation of the
Earth when the waiters closed in on both combatants with their
famous flying wedge formation and bore them outside, still resist-
ing.
I called McCarthy, one of the French garcons, and asked him the
cause of the conflict.
‘The man with the red tie’ (that was my cosmopolite), said he,
‘got hot on account of things said about the bum sidewalks and
water supply of the place he come from by the other guy.’
‘Why,’ said I, bewildered, ‘that man is a citizen of the world - a
cosmopolite. He -’
‘Originally from Mattawamkeag, Maine, he said,’ continued
McCarthy, ‘and he wouldn’t stand for no knockin’ the place.'
III
Between Rounds
THE MAY MOON sHONE BRIGHT upon the private boarding-house
of Mrs. Murphy. By reference to the almanae a large amount of
territory will be discovered upon which its rays also fell. Spring
was in its heyday, with hay fever soon to follow. The parks were
green with new leaves and buyers for the Western and Southern
trade. Flowers and summer-resort agents were blowing; the air
and answers to Lawson were growing milder; hand-organs, foun-
tains and pinochle were playing everywhere.
The windows of Mrs. Murphy’s boarding-house were open. A
group of boarders were seated or the high stoop upon round, flat
mats like German pancakes.
In one of the second-floor front windows Mrs. McCaskey