0 HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
addressed the letter to ‘E. Rushmore Coglan, Esq, the Earthy,
Solar System, the Universe,’ and have mailed it, feeling confident
char it would be delivered to him.’
I was sure that I had at last found the one true cosmopolite since
Adam, and I listened to his world-wide discourse fearful lest I
should discover in it the local note of the mere globe-trotter. But
his opinions never fluttered or drooped; he was as impartial to
cities, countries and continents as the winds or gravitation.
And as E. Rushmore Coglan prattled of this lite planet I
thought with glee of a great almost-cosmopolite who wrote for the
whole world and dedicated himself to Bombay. In a poem he has
to say that there is pride and rivalry between the cities of the
earth, and that ‘the men that breed from them, they traffic up and
down, but cling to their cities’ hem as a child to the mother’s
gown.’ And whenever they walk ‘by roaring streets unknown’ they
remember their native city ‘most faithful, foolish, fond; making
her mere-breathed name their bond upon their bond.’ And my
glee was roused because I had caught Mr. Kipling napping. Here I
had found a man not made from dust; one who had no narrow
boasts of birthplace or country, one who, if he bragged at all,
would brag of his whole round globe against the Martians and the
inhabitants of the Moon.
Expression on these subjects was precipitated from E. Rush-
more Coglan by the third corner to our table. While Coglan was
describing to me the topography along the Siberian Railway the
orchestra glided into a medley. The concluding air was ‘Dixie,’
and as the exhilarating notes rumbled forth they were almost over-
powered by a great clapping of hands from almost every table.
It is worth a paragraph to say that this remarkable scene can be
witnessed every evening in numerous cafes in the City of New
York. Tons of brew have been consumed over theories to account
for it. Some have conjectured hastily that all Southerners in town
hie themselves to cafes at nightfall. This applause of the ‘rebel’ air
in a Northern city does puzzle a little; but it is not insolvable. ‘T’he
war with Spain, many years’ generous mint and water-melon
crops, a few long-shot winners at the New Orleans race-track, and
the brilliant banquets given by the Indiana and Kansas citizens
who compose the North Carolina Society, have made the South
rather a ‘fad’ in Manhattan. Your manicure will lisp softly that
your left forefinger reminds her so much of a gentleman’s in Rich-
mond, Va. Oh, certainly but many a lady has to work now - the
war, you know.