O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES   333
and then photography, in spite of its impossible perspective, man-
ages to record a fleeting glimpse of truth. But you spoil every
denouement by those flat, drab, obliterating strokes of your brush
that I have so often complained of. If you would rise to the liter-
ary pinnacle of your dramatic scenes, and paint them in the high
colours that art requires, the postman would leave fewer bulky,
self -addressed envelopes at your door.’
‘Oh, fiddles and footlights!’ cried Dawe derisively. ‘You’ve got
that old sawmill drama kink in your brain yet. When the man with
the black moustache kidnaps golden-haired Bessie you are bound
to have the mother kneel and raise her hands in the spotlight and
say: ‘May high heaven witness that I will rest neither night Nor
day till the heartless villain that has stolen me child feels the
weight of a mother’s vengeance!” ’
Editor Westbrook conceded a smile of impervious complacency.
‘I think,’ said he, ‘that in real life the woman would express her-
self in those words or in very similar ones.
‘Not in a six hundred nights’ run anywhere but on the stage,’
said Dawe hotly. ‘I’ll tell you what she’d say in real life. She’d say:
‘What! Bessie led away by a strange man? Good Lord! It’s one
trouble after another! Get my other hat, I must hurry around to
the police-station. Why wasn’t somebody looking after her, I’d
like to know? For God’s sake, get out of my way or I’ll never get
ready. Not that hat - the brown one with the velvet hows. Bessie
must have been crazy; she’s usually shy of strangers. Is that too
much powder? Lordy! How I’m upset!”
‘That’s the way she’d talk,’ continued Dawe. ‘People in real life
don’t fly into heroics and blank verse at emotional crises. They
simply can’t do it. If they talk at all on such occasions they draw
from the same vocabulary that they use every day, and muddle up
their words and ideas a little More, that’s all.’
‘Shack,’ said Editor Westbrook impressively, ‘did you ever pick
up the mangled and lifeless form of a child from under the fender
of a street-car, and carry it in your arms and lay it down before the
distracted mother? Did you ever do that and listen to the words of
grief and despair as they flowed spontaneously from her lips?’
‘I never did,’ said Dawe. ‘Did you?’
‘Well, no,’ said Editor Westbrook, with a slight frown. ‘But I
can well imagine what she would say.’
‘So can I,’ said Dawe.
And now the fitting time had come for Editor Westbrook to play
the oracle and silence his opinionated contributor. It was not for an