314     O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
additional quarter, feeling a glow of conscious generosity as I did
so. He refused it.
‘It’s two dollars, suh,’ he said.
‘How’s that?’ I asked. ‘I plainly heard you call out at the hotel:
‘Fifty cents to any part of the town." '
‘It’s two dollars, suh,’ he repeated obstinately. ‘It’s a long ways
From the hotel.’
‘It is within the city limits and well within them,’ I argued.
‘Don’t think that you have picked up a greenhorn Yankee. Do you
see those hills over there?’ I went on, pointing toward the east (I
could not see them, myself, for the drizzle); ‘well, I was born and
raised on their other side. You old fool nigger, can’t you tell
people from other people when you see em?’
The grim face of King Cetewayo softened. ‘Is you from the
South, suh? I reckon it was them shoes of yourn fooled me. There
is somethin’ sharp in the toes for a Southern gen’l’man to wear.’
‘Then the charge is fifty cents, I suppose?’ said I inexorably.
His former expression, a mingling of cupidity and hostility,
returned, remained ten minutes, and vanished.
‘Boss,’ he said, ‘fifty cents is right but I needs two dollars, suh;
I’m obleeged to have two dollars. I ain’t demandin’ it now, suh;
after I knows whar you’s from; I’m jus’ sayin’ that I has to have
two dollars to-night, and business is mighty po’.’
Peace and confidence settled upon his heavy features. He had
been luckier than he had hoped. Instead of having picked up a
greenhorn, ignorant of rates, he had come upon an inheritance.
‘You confounded old rascal,’ I said, reaching down into my
pocket, ‘you ought to be turned over to the police.’
For the first time I saw him smile. He knew; HE KNEW.
I gave him two one-dollar bills. As I handed them over I noticed
that one of them had seen parlous times. Its upper right-hand
corner was missing, and it had been torn through in the middle
but joined again. A strip of blue tissue-paper, pasted over the split,
preserved its negotiability.
Enough of the African bandit for the present: I left him happy,
lifted the rope and opened the creaky gate.
The house, as I said, was a shell. A paint-brush had not touched
it in twenty years. I could not see why a strong wind should not
have bowled it over like a house of cards until I looked again at the
trees that hugged it close - the trees that saw the battle of
Nashville and still drew their protecting branches around it
against storm and enemy and cold.