8   O HEN RY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
When ‘Dixie’ was being played a dark-haired young man
sprang up from somewhere with a Mosby guerrilla yell and waved
frantically his soft-brimmed hat. Then he strayed through the
smoke, dropped into the vacant chair at our table and pulled out
cigarettes.
The evening was at the period when reserve is thawed. One of
us mentioned three Wirzhurgers to the waiter; the dark-haired
young man acknowledged his inclusion in the order by a smile and
a nod. I hastened to ask him a question because I wanted to try out
a theory I had.
‘Would you mind telling me,’ I began, ‘whether you are from -’
The fist of E. Rushmore Coglan banged the table and I was
jarred into silence.
‘Excuse me,’ said he, ‘but that’s a question I never like to hear
asked. What does it matter where a man is from? Is it fair to judge
a man by his post-office address? Why, I’ve seen Kentuckians who
hated whisky, Virginians who weren’t descended from Pocahon-
tas, Indianians who hadn’t written a novel, Mexicans who didn’t
wear velvet trousers with silver dollars sewed along the seams,
funny Englishmen, spendthrift Yankees, cold-blooded Southern-
ers, narrow-minded Westerners, and New Yorkers who were too
busy to stop for an hour on the street to watch a one-armed
grocer’s clerk do up cranberries in paper bags. Let a man be a man
and don’t handicap him with the label of any section.’
‘Pardon me,’ I said, ‘but my curiosity was not altogether an idle
one. I know the South, and when the band plays ‘Dixie” I like to
observe. I have formed the belief that the man who applauds that
air with special violence and ostensible sectional loyalty is invari-
ably a native of either Secaucus, N)., or the district between
Murray Hill Lyceum and the Harlem River, this city. I was about
to put my opinion to the test by inquiring of this gentleman when
you interrupted with your own - larger theory, I must confess.'
And now the dark-haired young man spoke to me, and it
became evident that his mind also moved along its own set of
grooves
‘I should like to be a periwinkle,’ said he, mysteriously, ‘on the
top of a valley, and sing too-ralloo-ralloo.’
This was clearly too obscure, so I turned again to Coglan.
‘I’ve been around the world twelve times,’ said he. ‘I know an
Esquiman in Upernavik who sends to Cincinnati for his neckties,
and I saw a goat-herder in Uruguay who won a prize in a Battle
Creek breakfast-food puzzle competition. I pay rent on a room in