O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 17
do look green. I’m just a poor little working girl. Show me some-
thing higher and lower.’
Mr. Skidder jumped and strewed the floor with cigarette stubs
at the rap on his door.
‘Excuse me, Mr. Skidder,’ said Mrs. Parker, with her demon’s
smile at his pale looks. ‘I didn’t know you were in. I asked the lady
to have a look at your lambrequins.’
‘They’re too lovely for anything,’ said Miss Leeson, smiling in
exactly the way the angels do.
After they had gone Mr. Skidder got very busy erasing the
tall, black-haired heroine from his latest (unproduced) play and
inserting a small, roguish one with heavy, bright hair and vivacious
features.
‘Anna Held’ll jump at it,’ said Mr. Skidder to himself, putting
his feet up against the lambrequins and disappearing in a cloud of
smoke like an aerial cuttlefish.
Presently the tocsin call of ‘Clara!’ sounded to the world the
state of Miss Leeson’s purse. A dark goblin seized her, mounted
a Stygian stairway, thrust her into a vault with a glimmer of light
in its top and muttered the menacing and cabalistic words ‘Two
dollars!’
‘I’ll take it!’ sighed Miss Leeson, sinking down upon the
squeaky iron bed.
Every day Miss Leeson went out to work. At night she brought
home papers with handwriting on them and made copies with her
typewriter. Somerimes she had no work at night, and then she
would sit on the steps of the high stoop with the other roomers.
Miss Leeson was not intended for a skylight room when the plans
were drawn for her creation. She was gay-hearted and full of
tender, whimsical fancies. Once she let Mr. Skidder read to her
three acts of his great (unpublished)! comedy, ‘It’s No Kid; or, The
Heir of the Subway.’
There was rejoicing among the gentlemen roomers whenever
Miss Leeson had time to sit on the steps for an hour or two. But
Miss Longnecker, the tall blonde who Taught in a public school
and said ‘Well, really!’ to everything you said, sat on the top step
and sniffed. And Miss Dorn, who shot at the moving ducks at
Coney every Sunday and worked in a department store, sat on the
bottom step and sniffed. Miss Leeson sat on the middle step, and
the men would quickly group around her.
Especially Mr. Skidder, who had cast her in his mind for the
star part in a private, romantic (unspoken) drama in real life. And