78       O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
underground vaults mingled with the reeking exhalations of
linoleum and mildewed and rotten -woodwork.
Then, suddenly, as he rested there, the room was filled with the
strong, sweet odour of mignonette. It came as upon a single buffet
of wind with such sureness and fragrance and emphasis that it
almost seemed a living visitant. And the man cried aloud, ‘What,
dear?’ as if he had been called, and sprang up and faced about. The
rich odour clung to him and wrapped him about. He reached out
his arms for it, all his senses for the time confused and commin-
gled. How could one be peremptorily called by an odour? Surely it
must have been a sound. But, was it nor the sound that had
touehed, that had caressed him?
‘She has been in this room,’ he cried, and he sprang to wrest
from it a token, for he knew he would recognize the smallest thing
that had belonged to her or that she had touched. This enveloping
scent of mignonette, the odour that she had loved and made her
own o whence came it?
‘The room had been but carelessly set in order. Scattered upon
the flimsy dresser scarf were half a dozen hairpins - those discreet,
indistinguishable friends of womankind, feminine of gender, infi-
nite of mood and uncommunicative of tense. These he ignored,
conscious of their triumphant lack of identity. Ransacking the
drawers of the dresser he came upon a discarded, tiny, ragged
handkerchief. He pressed it to his face. It was racy and insolent
with heliotrope; he hurled it to the floor. In another drawer he
found odd buttons, a theatre programme, a pawnbroker’s card,
two lost marshmallows, a book on the divination of dreams. In the
last was a woman’s black satin hair-bow, which halted him, poised
between ice and Eire. Hut the black satin hair-bow also is feminin-
ity’s demure, impersonal, common ornament, and tells no tales.
And then he traversed the room like a hound on the scent,
skimming the walls, considering the corners of the bulging mat-
ting on his hands and knees, rummaging mantel and tables, the
curtains and hangings, the drunken cabinet in the corners, for a vis-
ible sign unable to perceive that she was there beside, around,
against, within, above him, clinging to him, wooing him, calling
him so poignantly through the finer senses that even his grosser
ones became cognizant of the call. Once again he answered loudly,
‘Yes, dear!’ and turned, wild-eyed, to gaze on vacancy, for he
could not yet discern form and colour and love and outstretched
arms in the odour of mignonette. Oh, God! whence that odour,
and since when have odours had a voice to call? Thus he groped.