30 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
‘Lots of things he Never saw,’ said the favourite of the hop.
‘As a rule,’ went on Dempsey, huskily sweet, ‘O’Sullivans in this
district know one another. You escorted one of our lady members
here, and we want a chance to make good. If you’ve got a family
tree let’s see a few historical O’Sullivan buds come out on it. Or
do you want us to dig it out of you by the roots?’
‘Suppose you mind your own business, suggested O’Sullivan
blandly.
Dempsey’s eyes brightened. He held up an inspired forefinger
as though a brilliant idea had stuck him.
‘I’ve got it now,’ he said cordially. ‘It was just a little mistake.
You ain’t no O’Sullivan. You are a ring-tailed monkey. Excuse us
for not recognizing you at first.’
O’Sullivan’s eye flashed. He made a quick movement, but Andy
Geoghan wais ready and caught his arm.
Dempsey nodded at Andy and William McMahan, the secretary of
the club, and walked rapidly toward a door at the rear of the hall.
Two other members of the Give and Take Association swiftly joined
the litle group. Terry O’Sullivan was now in the hands of the Board
of Rules and Social Referees. They spoke to him briefly and softly
and conducted him out through the same door at the rear.
This movement on the part of the Clover Leaf members
requires a word of elucidation. Back of the association hall was a
smaller room rented by the club. In this room personal diffieulties
that arose on the ballroom floor were settled, man to man, with
the weapons of nature, under the supervision of the Board. No
lady could say that she had witnessed a fight at a Clover Leaf hop
in several years. Its gentlemen members guaranteed that
So easily and smoothly had Dempsey and the Board done their
preliminary work that many in the hall had not noticed the cheek-
ing of the fascinating O’Sullivan’s social triumph. Among these
was Maggie. She looked about for her escort.
‘Smoke up!’ said Rose Cassidy. ‘Wasn’t you on? Demps Dono-
van picked a scrap with your Lizzie-boy, and they’ve waltzed out
to the slaughter-room with him. How’s my hair look done up this
way, Mag?’
Maggie laid a hand on the bosom of her cheesecloth waist.
‘Gone to fight with Dempsey!’ she said breathlessly. ‘They’ve
got to be stopped. Dempsey Donovan can’t fight him. Why, he’ll -
he’ll kill him!’
‘Ah, what do you care?’ said Rosa. ‘Don’t some of ’em fight
every hop?’