26     O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
both creations of the same art - but you wouldn’t call it either
painting or music.
And then they both laughed, and Joe began:
‘When one loves one’s Art o service seems -
But Delia stopped him with her hand on his lips. ‘No,’ she said -
'just "When one loves.” ’
VI
The Coming-out of Maggie
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT the Clover Leaf Social Club gave a hop
in the hall of he Give and Take Athletic Association on the East
Side. In order to attend one of these dances you must he a
member of the Give and Take - or, if you belong to the division
that starts off with the right foot in waltzing, you must work in
Rhinegold’s paper-box factory. Still, any Clover Leaf was privi-
leged to escort or be escorted by an outsider to a single dance. But
mostly each Give and Take brought the paper-box girl that he
affected; and few strangers could boast of having shaken a foot at
the regular hops.
Maggie ‘Toole, on account of her dull eyes, broad mouth and
left-handed style of footwork in the two-step, went to the dances
with Anna McCarty and her ‘fellow.’ Anna and Maggie worked
side by side in the factory, and were the greatest chums ever. So
Anna always made Jimmy Burns take her by Maggie’s house every
Saturday night so that her friend could go to the dance with them.
The Give and Take Athletic Association lived up to its name. The
hall of the association in Orchard Street was fitted out with muscle-
making inventions. With the fibres thus builded up the members
were wont to engage the police and rival social and athletic organiza-
tions in joyous combat. Between these more serious occupations the
Saturday night hops with the paper-box factory girls came as a refin-
ing influence and as an efficient screen. For sometimes the tip went
round, and if you were among the elect that tiptoed up the dark back
stairway you might see as neat and satisfying a little welter-weight
affair to a finish as ever happened inside the ropes.
On Saturdays Rhinegold’s paper-box factory closed at 3 p:m
On one such afternoon Anna and Maggie walked homeward
together. At Maggie’s door Anna said, as usual: ‘Be ready at seven;
sharp, Mag; and Jimmy and me’ll come by for you.’