16 O Henry - 100 SELECTED STORIES
was worth the $12 that Mr. Toosenberry always paid for it until
he left to take charge of his brother’s orange plantation in Florida
near Palm Beach, where Mrs. Mclntyre always spent the winters
that had the double front room with private bath, you managed to
babble that you wanted something still cheaper.
If you survived Mrs. Parker’s scorn, you were taken to look at
Mr. Skidder’s large hall-room on the third floor. Mr. Skidder’s
room was not vacant. He wrote plays and smoked cigarettes in it
all day long. But every room-hunter was made to visit his room to
admire the lambrequins. After each visit, Mr. Skidder, from the
fright caused by possible eviction, would pay something on his
rent,
Then - oh, then - if you still stood on one foot with your hot
hand clutching the three moist dollars in your pocket, and
hoarsely proclaimed your hideous and culpable poverty, never-
more would Mrs. Parker be cicerone of yours. She would honk
loudly the word ‘Clara,’ she would show you her back, and march
downstairs. Then Clara, the coloured maid, would escort you up
the carpeted ladder that served for the fourth flight, and show you
the Skylight Room. It occupied 7 by 8 feet of floorspace at the
middle of the hall. On each side of it was a dark lumber closet or
store-room.
In it was an iron cot, a washstand and a chair A shelf was the
dresser. Its four bare walls seemed to close in upon you like the
sides of a coin. Your hand crept to your throat, you gasped, you
looked up as from a well - and breathed once more. Through the
glass of the little skylight you saw a square of blue infinity.
‘Two dollars, suh,’ Clara would say in her half-contemptuous,
half- Tuskegeenial tones.
One day Miss Leeson came hunting for a room. She carried a
typewriter made to be lugged around by a much larger lady. She
was a very little girl, with eyes and hair that kept on growing after
she had stopped and that always looked as if they were saying:
‘Goodness me. Why didn’t you keep up with us?’
Mrs. Parker showed her the double parlours. ‘In this closet,’ she
said, ‘one could keep a skeleton or anesthetic or coal -’
‘But I am neither a doctor nor a dentist,’ said Miss Leeson with
a shiver.
Mrs. Parker gave her the incredulous, pitying, sneering, icy
stare that she kept for those who failed to qualify as doctors or
dentists, and led the way to the second floor back.
‘Eight dollars?’ said Miss Leeson. ‘Dear me! I’m not Hetty if I