O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    319
Without much trouble I managed to get her up on the antediluvian
horsehair sofa and then I ran out to the sidewalk and yelled to the
coffee-coloured Pirate to bring a doctor.With a wisdom that I had
not suspected in him, he abandoned his team and struck off up the
street afoot, realizing the value of speed. In ten minutes he returned
with a grave, grey-haired and capable man of medicine. In a few
words (worth much less than eight cents each) I explained to him
my presence in the hollow house of mystery. He bowed with stately
understanding, and turned to the old negro.
‘Uncle Caesar,’ he said calmly, ‘run up to my house and ask Miss
Lucy to give you a cream pitcher full of fresh milk and half a tum-
bler of port wine. And hurry back. Don’t drive - run. I want you
to get back some time this week.’
It occurred to He that Dr. Merriman also felt a distrust as to the
speeding powers of the landpirate’s steeds. After Uncle Caesar was
gone, lumberingly, but swiftly, up the street, the doctor looked me
over with great politeness and as much careful calculation until he
had derided that I might do.
‘It is only a case of insufficient nutrition,’ he said. ‘In other
words, the result of poverty, pride, and starvation. Mrs. Caswell
has many devoted friends who would be glad to aid her, but she
will accept nothing except from that old negro, Uncle Caesar, who
was once owned by her family.’
‘Mrs. Caswell!’ said I, in surprise. And then I looked at the
contract and saw that she had signed it ‘Azalea Adair Caswell.’
‘TI thought she was Miss Adair,’ I said.
‘Married to a drunken, worthless loafer, sir,’ said the doctor. ‘It
is said that he robs her even of the small sums that her old servant
contributes toward her support.’
When the milk and wine had been brought, the doctor soon
revived Azalea Adair. She sat up and talked of the beauty of the
autumn leaves that were then in season, and their height of colour.
She referred lightly to her fainting seizure as the outcome of an
old palpitation of the heart. Impy fanned her as she lay on the
sofa. The doctor was due elsewhere, and I followed him to the
door. I told him that it was within my power and intentions to
make a reasonable advance of money to Azalea Adair on future
contributions to the magazine, and he seemed pleased.
‘By the way,’ he said, ‘perhaps you would like to know that you
have had royalty for a coachman. Old Cesar’s grandfather was a
king in Congo. Caesar himself has royal ways, as you may have
observed.’