O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 299
affairs. I found myself able to sustain the conversation on such sub-
jects with credit, at least to my memory. By and by my companion
said-
‘You are one of us, of course. Fine lot of men the West sends in
this time. I’m glad they held the convention in New York; I’ve
never been East before. My name’s R.P. Bolder - Bolder & Son,
of Hickory Grove, Missouri.’
Though unprepared, I rose to the emergency, as men will
when put to it. Now must I hold a christening, and be at once
babe, parson and parent. My senses came to the rescue of my
slower brain. The insistent odour of drugs from my companion
supplied one idea; a glance at his newspaper, where my eye met a
conspicuous advertisement, assisted me further.
‘My name,’ said I glibly, ‘is Edward Pinkhammer. I am a drug-
gist, and my home is in Cornopolis, Kansas.’
‘I knew you were a druggist,’ said my fellow-traveller affably. ‘I
saw the callous spot on your right forefinger where the handle of
the pestle rubs. Of course, you are a delegate to our National
Convention.’
‘Are all these men druggists?’ I asked wonderingly.
‘They are. This car came through from the West. And they’re
your old-time druggists, too - none of your patent tablet-and-gran-
ule pharmashootists that use slot machines instead of a prescription
desk. We percolate our own paregoric and roll our own pills, and
we ain’t above handling a few garden seeds in the spring, and carry-
ing a sideline of confectionery and shoes. I tell you, Hampinker, I’ve
got an idea to spring on this convention - new ideas is what they
want. Now, you know the shelf bottles of tartar emetic and Rochelle
salt Ant. et Pot. Tart. and Sod. et Pot. Tart. - one’s poison, you
know, and the other’s harmless. It’s easy to mistake one label for the
other. Where do druggists mostly keep ’em? Why, as far apart as
possible, on different shelves. That’s wrong. I say keep ’em side by
side so when you want one you can always compare it with the other
and avoid mistakes. Do you catch the idea?’
‘It seems to me a very good one,’ I said.
‘All right! When I spring it on the convention you back it up.
We’ll make some of these Eastern orange-phosphate-and-mas-
sage-cream professors that think they’re the only lozenges in the
market look like hypodermic tablets.’
‘If I can be of any aid,’ I said, warming, ‘the two bottles of - er-'
‘Tartrate of antimony and potash, and tartrate of soda and
potash.’