34    O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
At a corner of Sixth Avenue electric lights and cunningly dis-
played wares behind plate-glass made a shop window conspicuous.
Soapy took a cobblestone and dashed it through the glass. People
came running round the corner, a policeman in the lead. Soapy
stood still, with his hands in his pockets, and smiled at the sigh of
brass buttons.’
‘Where’s the man that done that?’ inquired the officer excitedly.
‘Don’t you figure out that I might have had something to do
with it?’ said Soapy, not without sarcasm, but friendly, as one
greets good fortune.
The policeman’s mind refused to accept Soapy even as a clue.
Men who smash windows do not remain to parley with the law’s
minions. They take to their heels. The policeman saw a man half-
way down the block running to catch a car. With drawn club he
joined in the pursuit. Soapy, with disgust in his heart, loafed
along, twice unsuccessful.
On the opposite side of the street was a restaurant of no great
pretensions. It catered to large appetites aid modest purses. Its
crockery and atmosphere were thick; its soup and napery thin.
Into this place Soapy took his accusive shoes and tell-tale trouser
without challenge. At a table he sat and consumed beefsteak, flap-
jacks, doughnuts and pie. And then to the waiter he betrayed the
fact that the minutest coin and himself were strangers.
‘Now, get busy and call a cop,’ said Soapy. ‘And don’t keep a
gentleman waiting.’
‘No cop for youse,’ said the waiter, with a voice like butter cakes
and an eye like the cherry in a Manhattan cocktail. ‘Hey, Con!’
Neatly upon his left ear on the callous pavement two waiters
pitched Soapy. He arose, joint by joint, as a carpenter’s rule opens,
and beat the dust from his clothes. Arrest seemed but a rosy
dream. The Island seemed very far away. A policeman who stood
before a drug store two doors away laughed and walked down the
street.
Five blocks Soapy travelled before his courage permitted him to
woo capture again. ‘This time the opportunity presented what he
fatuously termed to himself a ‘cinch.’ A young woman of a modest
and pleasing guise was standing before a show window gazing with
sprightly interest at its display of shaving mugs and inkstands, and
two yards from the window a large policeman of severe
demeanour leaned against a water-plug.
It was Soapy’s design to assume the role of the despicable and
execrated ‘masher.’ The refined and elegant appearance of his