O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    315
Azalea Adair, fifty years old, white-haired, a descendant of the
cavaliers, as thin and frail as the house she lived in, robed in the
cheapest and cleanest dress T ever saw, with an air as simple as a
queen’s, received me.
The reception-room seemed a mile square, because there was
nothing in it except some rows of books, on unpainted, white-pine
bookshelves, a cracked, marble-top table, a rag rug, a hairless horse-
hair sofa and two or three chairs. Yes, there was a picture on the wall,
a coloured crayon drawing of a cluster of pansies. I looked around
for the portrait of Andrew Jackson and the pine-cone hanging
basket, but they were not there.
Azalea Adair and I had conversation, a little of which will be
repeated to you. She was a product of the old South, gently nur-
tured in the sheltered life. Her learning was not broad, but was
deep and of splendid originality in its somewhat narrow scope. She
had been educated at home, and her knowledge of the world was
derived from inference and by inspiration. Of such is the precious,
small group of essayists made. While she talked to me, I kept
brushing my fingers, trying, unconsciously, to rid them guiltily of
the absent dust from the half-calf backs of Lamb, Chaucer,
Hazlitt, Marcus Aurelius, Montaigne and Hood. She was exquis-
ite, she was a valuable discovery. Nearly everybody nowadays
knows too much - oh, so much too much - of real life.
I could perceive clearly that Azalea Adair was very poor. A
house and a dress she had, not much else, I fancied. So, divided
between my duty to the magazine and my loyalty to the poets and
essayists who fought Thomas in the valley of the Cumberland, I
listened to her voice, which was like a harpsichord’s, and found
that I could not speak of contracts. In the presence of the Nine
Muses and the Three Graces one hesitated to lower the topic to
two cents. ‘There would have to be another colloquy after I had
regained my commercialism. But I spoke of my mission, and
three o’clock of the next afternoon was set for the discussion of
the business proposition
‘Your town,’ I said, as I began to make ready to depart (which is
the time for smooth generalities), ‘seems to be a quiet, sedate
place. A home town, I should say, where few things out of the
ordinary ever happen.’
It carries on an extensive trade in stoves and hollow ware with the West and
South, and its flouring mills have a daily capacity of more than 2,000 barrels.