44  O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
‘You will excuse me, Chunk,’ said key. ‘I must make a prescription
that is to be called for soon.’
‘Say,’ said McGowan, looking up suddenly. ‘say, Ikey, ain’t
there a drug of some kind - some kind of powders that’ll make a
girl like you better if you give ’em to her?
Ikey’s lip beneath his nose curled with the scorn of superior
enlightenment but before he could answer, McGowan continued:
‘Tim Lacy told me once that he got some from a croaker up-
town and fed ’em to his girl in soda water. From the very first dose
he was ace-high and everybody else looked like thirty cents to her.
They was married in less than two weeks.’
Strong and simple was Chunk McGowan. A better reader of
men than lkey was could have seen that his tough frame was
strung upon fine wires. Like a good general who was about to
invade the enemy’s territory he was seeking to guard every point
against possible failure.
‘I thought,’ vent on Chunk hopefully, ‘tar if I had one of them
powders to give Rosy when I see her at supper to-night it might
brace her up and keep her from reneging on the proposition to
skip. I guess she don’t need a mule team to drag her away, but
women are better at coaching than they are at running bases. If
She stuffll work just for a couple of hours it’ll do the trick.’
‘When is this foolishness of running away to be happening?'
asked lkey.
‘Nine o’clock,’ said Mr. McGowan. ‘Supper’s at seven. A eight
Rosy goes to bed with a headache. At nine old Parvenzano lets me
through to his backyard, where there’s a board off Riddle’s fence,
next door. I go under her window and help her down the fire-
escape. We’ve got to make it early on the preacher’s account. It’s
all dead easy if Rosy don’t balk when the flag drops. Can you fix
me one of them powders, Ikey?’
key Schoenstein rubbed his nose slowly.
‘Chunk,’ said he, ‘it is of drugs of that nature that pharma-
ceutists must have much carefulness. To you alone of my acquain-
tance would I entrust a powder like that. But for you I shall make
it, and you shall see how it makes Rosy to think of you.'
Ikey went behind the prescription desk. ‘There he crushed to a
powder two soluble tablets, each containing a quarter of a grain of
morphia. ‘To them he added a little sugar of milk to increase the
bulk, and folded the mixture neatly in a white paper. Taken by an
adult this powder would ensure several hours of heavy slumber
without danger to the sleeper. This he handed to Chunk