18   O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
especially Mr. Hoover, who was forty-five, fat, flushed and foolish.
And especially very young Mr. Evans, who set up a hollow cough
to induce her to ask him to leave off cigarettes. The men voted her
‘the funniest and jolliest ever,’ but the sniffs on the top step and
the lower step were implacable.
I pray you let the drama halt while Chorus stalks to the foot-
lights and drops an epicedian tear upon the fatness of Mr. Hoover.
Tune the pipes to the tragedy of tallow, the bane of bulk, the
calamity of corpulence. Tried out, Falstaff might have rendered
more romance to the con than would have Romeo’s rickety ribs to
the ounce. A lover may sigh, but he must not puff. To the train off
Momus ave e Fat men remanded. Tn vain beats the faithfullest
heart above a 52-inch belt. Avaunt, Hoover! Hoover, forty-five,
flush and foolish, might carry off Helen herself; Hoover, forty-
five, flush, foolish and fat, is meat for perdition. There was never a
chance for you, Hoover.
As Mrs. Parker’s roomers sat thus one summer’s evening, Miss
Leeson looked up into the firmament and cried with her little gay
laugh:
‘Why, there’s Billy Jackson! I can see him from down here, too.
All looked up - some at the windows of skyscrapers, some cast-
ing about for an airship, Jackson-guided.
‘It’s that star,’ explained Miss Leeson, pointing with a tiny
finger. ‘Not the big one that twinkles - he steady blue one near it.
I can see it every night through my skylight. I named it Billy Jack-
son.’
‘ell, really!’ said Miss Longnecker. ‘I didn’t know you were an
astronomer, Miss Leeson.’
‘Oh, yes,’ said the small star-gazer, ‘I know as much as any of
them about the style of sleeves they’re going to wear next fall in
Mars.’
‘ell, really!’ said Miss Longnecker. ‘The star you refer to is
Gamma, of the constellation Cassiopeia. It is nearly of the second
magnitude, and its meridian passage is -’
‘Oh,’ said the very young Mr. Evans, ‘I think Billy Jackson is a
much better name for it.
‘Same here,’ said Mr. Hoover, loudly breathing defiance to Miss
Longnecker. ‘I think Miss Leeson has just as much right to name
stars as any of those old astrologers had.’