O HENRY -- 100 SELECTED STORIES
head or shot a member of the Heinrick B. Sweeney Outing and
Literary Association in the kneecap, an officer would drop around
and say:
‘The Cap’n’d like to see ye a few minutes round to the office
whin ye have time, Dempsey, me boy.’
But there would be sundry gentlemen there with large gold fob
chains and black cigars; and somebody would tell a funny story,
and then Dempsey would go back and work half an hour with the
six-pound dumb-bells. So. doing a tight-rope act on a wire
stretched across Niagara was a safe terpsichorean performance
compared with waltzing twice with Dempsey Donovan’s paper-
box girl. At ten o’clock the jolly round face of ‘Big Mike’ O’sulli-
van shone at the door for five minutes upon the scene. He always
looked in for five minutes, smiled at the girls and handed out real
perfectos to the delighted boys.
Dempsey Donovan was at his elbow instantly, talking rapidly.
‘Big Mike’ looked carefully at the dancers, smiled, shook his head
and departed.
The music stopped. The dancers scattered to the chairs along
the walls. Terry O’Sullivan, with his entrancing bow, relinquished
a pretty girl in blue to her partner and started back to find
Maggie. Dempsey intercepted him in the middle of the floor.
Some fine instinct that Rome must have bequeathed to us
caused nearly every one to turn and look at them - there was a
subtle feeling that two gladiators had met in the arena. Two or
three Give and Takes with tight coat-sleeves drew nearer.
‘One moment, Mr. O’Sullivan,’ said Dempsey. ‘I hope you’re
enjoying yourself. Where did you say you lived?
The two gladiators were well matched. Dempsey had, perhaps,
ten pounds of weight to give away. The O’Sullivan had breadth
with quickness Dempsey had a glacial eye, a dominating slit of a
mouth, an indestructible jaw, a complexion like a belle’s and the
coolness of a champion. The visitor showed more fire in his con-
tempt and less control over his conspicuous sneer. They were ene-
mies by the law written when the rocks were molten. They were
each too splendid, too mighty, too incomparable to divide pre-
eminence. One only must survive.
‘I live on Grand,’ said O’Sullivan insolently ‘and no trouble to
find me at home. Where do you live?’
Dempsey ignored the question.
‘You say your name’s O’Sullivan,’ he went on. ‘Well, ‘Big
Mike” says he never saw you before.’