192      GEORGE  WASHINGTON, MAN AND MONUMENT&rdquo;
 And virtus was one of the famous Roman virtues (and, in
 practice, a Virginian one. Gravitas, pietas, simplicitas, in-
 tegritas and gloria were other valued Roman qualities.
 As the virtue, so the environment. Rome was a martial
 civilization, always aware of the unrest along the frontiers,
 the bringer of law and imposer of order. Roman culture
 was a trifle hard and unsubtle, or at any rate rooted in
 reality rather than raptly poetic; religious feeling was mod-
 erate in tone, excess being deplored. Rome was a slave-
 holding society in which (outside the capital and the pro-
 vincial centers) the unit of neighborhood was a farm
 estate. It was a society that relied upon the family as the
 cohesive force. Affection, respect, loyalty spread outward
 from the family, which was thus the state in microcosm.
This was a society that bred solid, right-thinking citizens,
 at once civic and acquisitive, men of a noble narrowness,
 seeing further than their noses but not agitating them-
 selves with vain speculation. Such are the implications
 of words like gravitas (seriousness), pietas (regard for
 discipline and authority), simplicitas (lucidity).
 For &lsquo;&lsquo;Rome&rdquo; here, may we not read &lsquo;&ldquo;Virginia&rsquo;&rdquo;? And
 were Washington&rsquo;s old-style biographers, or the admirers
 of his own generation, so wildly wrong when they said he
 was set in the antique mold, Cincinnatus reborn?  The
 broad picture of him as soldier, landowner, statesman all
 &ldquo;It was not merely empty rhetoric that led old Daniel Webster, invok-
 ing the memory of Washington in face ot threatened disunion (July 4,
1851), to close with a  fragmentary quotation from Roman otatoryt Duo
 mode haec opto: unum, ut moriens populum liberum relinquam; hoc mihi
 mcitf a diis immortalibus dari nihil potest; alterum, ut ita cuique eveniat,
made republica quisque mereatur I wish these things: one, that in dying I
may leave a free  people; nothing greater than this can be given me by the
 immortal gods; the second, that each man may prove worthy of the re-
public).