GEORGE WASHINGTON , ESQUIRE                                       31
 pean standards it was a sketchy education for a gentleman.
 and it was all the formal education he was to have, since,
 unlike some of his contemporaries, he did not go on to the
 College of William and Mary, in the Virginia capital at
 Williamsburg. We do not know why, unless again his moth-
 er&rsquo;s fragality and desire to keep him close at hand are the
 explanation. In short, George Washington was not highly
 educated, and never became what might be called an in-
 tellectual. Here he is in sharp contrast with Americans
 like John Adams, who was later to maintain, sourly, "That
 Washington was not a scholar is certain. That he was too
 illiterate, unlearned, unread for his station and reputation
 is equally past dispute.&rsquo;&rdquo;
 Nor, of course, does he compare in intellectual prepara-
 tion and power with sach Virginia contemporaries as
 Thomas Jefferson and James Madison. Years afterwatd
 Washington probably felt the lack. He was ill at ease in set
 debate or abstract discussion. He managed to express him-
 self on paper with a degree of clarity and force, thromgh long
 ptactice, and his spelling likewise improved, but he was
 never a brilliant writer.&rdquo; wWe may attribute a little of the
 constraint of the mature Washington to his awareness of
 his own intellectual limitations. While still a young man,
 he was to suffer through his ignorance of the French Ian-
 guage, and atterwards he was to refue an invttation to visit
 &ldquo;The Rules af Cidlity, from an eatIy potebook, are sometimes Iisted
 among Washington&rsquo;s own wticings but were merely copted down by him
 &rdquo;... In speaking to men ot Quality do not tean not Look them tull in
 the Face, Not apptoach too near them at Jkast Keap a tutl pace from
 them.."). As for the compositions of his matate yeats, their ideas came
 fro Washington, bat their phraseology &mdash; since he was an extremely basy
 man &mdash; had often to he left to his secretaries. Some of the latter wrote with
 considerable polish.