GENERAL WASHINGTON         125
Discipline.&rsquo;&rdquo; True, he thought mainly in terms of infantry,
somewhat to the neglect of cavalry and other arms. But he
 envisioned an army of veterans; that is the essential fact &mdash;
 and the cause of much of his distress during the war
years-
 For, thirdly, Congress also wanted a commander whose
 forces would consist largely of short-service militiamen, ir-
 regular; &mdash; even, despite what Chatham said, &ldquo;banditti.&rsquo;&rdquo;
 Congress wanted a man who could control such makeshift
 troops and exploit their special qualities. Here, perhaps,
 Congress began to expect too much of Washington. By tem-
 perament, at any rate, he was a shade too &lsquo;&lsquo;European&rsquo;&rsquo; for
 the circumstances of his America. His own experiences
 with militia, since Virginia frontier days, had been almost
 invariably unpleasant. It so happened that he was not
 present at any of the engagements &mdash; from Bunker, or
 Breed&rsquo;s, Hill to Cowpens &mdash; in which militia distinguished
 themselves. He was therefore reluctant to admit that mil-
 tia had any virtues.e He had enough of confusion; he was
 not interested, except incidentally, in harassing the red-
 coats, but in beating them soundly by pitched battle. Yet
 even here he did as much as Congress was entitled to expect
 or any fallible mortal. Washington was certainty not a
 martinet, seeking blindly to impose an alien pattern of
military etiquette upon Americans. He was well aware that
 American conditions called for special and rather unortho-
 5 At least, not unless properly trained and mustered. Some years later.
 when Washington attempted to secure a satisfactory military organization
 for the United States, he recognized that the regular army as bound to
 be a minuscule affair. He therefore recommended a well-trained militia as
 the basis of national defense. Re never Jived to see such a phenomenon.
 nor did generations of his successors, though they maintained the idea as a pious hope.