A door opened and closed in the passage behind her. A musty
smell emerged.
&lsquo;I regret I cannot do anything for you.
&lsquo;I&rsquo;ve come here specially on the train. I wanted to talk to you
for a moment
It is not convenient for me now,&rsquo; said the woman. &lsquo;I can&rsquo;t see
you. Another time.
she nodded and cautiously closed the door as though no
ore inside the house should be disturbed.
I stood where I was on the step. The curtain in front of the
bay window moved. Someone stared at me and would then have
asked what I wanted. &lsquo;Oh, nothing.&rsquo; the woman would have said
&lsquo;It was nothing.
I looked at the name-plate again. Dorling it said, in black
letters on white enamel. And on the jamb, a bit higher, the
number. Number 46
As I walked slowly back to the station I thought about my
mother. who had given me the address years ago. It had been in
the first half of the Var. I was home for a few days and it struck
me immediately that something or other about the rooms had
changed. I missed various things. My mother was surprised I
should have noticed so guickly. Then she told me about Mrs
Dorling. I had never heard of her but apparently she was an old
acquaintance of my mother. whom she hadn&rsquo;t seen for years.
She had suddenly turned up and renewed their contact. Since
then she had come regularly
Every time she leaves here she takes something home with
her.&rsquo; said my mother. &rsquo;She took all the table silver in one go. And
then the antique plates that hung there. She had trouble lugging
those large vases, and I&rsquo;m worried she got a crick in her back
from the crockery.&rsquo; My mother shook her head pityingly. &lsquo;I would
never have dared ask her. She suggested it to me herself. She
even insisted. She wanted to save all my nice things. If we have
to leave here we shall lose everything. she says.
Have you agreed with her that she should keep everything?
I asked.
As if that&rsquo;s necessary.&rsquo; my mother cried. &lsquo;It would simply
be an insult  to talk like that. And think about the risk she&rsquo;s
running. each time she goes out of our door with a full suitcase
or bag.