My mother seemed to notice that I was not entirely convinced!
She looked at me reprovingly and after that we spoke no more
about i t.
Meanwhile I had arrived at the station without having paid
mueh attention to things on the way. I was walking in familiar
places again for the first time since the War, but I did not want
to go further than was necessary. I didn&rsquo;t want to upset myself
with the sight of streets and houses full of memories from a
precious time.
In the train back I saw Mrs Dorling in front of me again as I
had the first time I met her. It was the morning after the day my
mother had told me about her. I had got up late and, coming
downstairs, I saw my mother about to see someone out. A woman
wi th a broad back.
&lsquo;There is my daughter.&rsquo; said my mother. She beckoned to mel
The woman nodded and picked up the suitcase under the
coat- rack. She wore a brown coat and a shapeless hatl
&lsquo;Does she live far away?&rsquo; I asked, seeing the difficulty she
had going out of the house with the heavy case.
&lsquo;In Marconi Street,&rsquo; said my mother. Number Mo. Remember that.&rsquo;
I had remembered it. But I had waited a long time to go there!
Initially after the Liberation I was absolutely not interested in
all that stored stuff. and naturally I was also rather afraid of it.
Afraid of being confronted with things that had belonged to a
connection that no longer existed, which were hidden away in
cupboards and boxes and waiting in valn until they were put
back in their place again; which had endured all those years
because they were &rsquo;things.&rsquo;
But gradually everything became Iore normal again. Bread
was getting to be a lighter colour. there was a bed you could
sleep in unthreatened, a room with a view you were more used
to glancing at each day. And one day I noticed I was curious
about all the possessions that must still be at that address. I
wated to see them, touch, remember&rsquo;
After my first vlsit in vain to Mrs Dorling&rsquo;s house I decided to
try a second time. Now a girl of about fifteen opened the door to
He. I asked her If her Mother was at home.!
&lsquo;No&rsquo; she said. &rsquo;my mother&rsquo;s doing an errand.&rsquo;
&lsquo;No matter,&rsquo; I said, &lsquo;I&rsquo;ll wait for her.&rsquo;