Sr't. I. I usrns thr EcthMhu Tr': Nt'rbyshi Ks 1I
Connectivity to the Internet enables many of these mobile uses. Since having
a wired connection is impossible in cars, boats, and airplanes, there is a lot of
interest in wireless networks. Cellular networks operated by the telephone com-
panies are one familiar kind of wireless network that blankets us with coverage
for mobile phones. wyWireless hotspots based on the 802. I I standard are another
kind of wireless network for mobile computers. They have sprung up everywhere
that people go, resulting in a patchwork of coverage at cafes, hotels, airports.
schools, trains and planes. Anyone with a laptop computer and a wireless modem
can just turn on their computer on and be connected to the Internet through the
hotspot, as though the computer were plugged into a wired network.
wyireless networks are of great value to fleets of trucks, taxis, delivery vehi-
cles, and repairpersons for keeping in contact with their home base. For example.
in many cities, taxi drivers are independent businessmen, rather than being em-
ployees of a taxi company. In some of these cities, the taxis have a display the
driver can see. wWhen a customer calls up, a central dispatcher types in the pickup
and destination points. This information is displayed on the drivers&rsquo; displays and
a beep sounds. The first driver to hit a button on the display gets the call.
wyireless networks are also important to the military. If you have to be able to
fight a war anywhere on arth at short notice, counting on using the local net-
working infrastructure is probably not a good idea. It is better to bring your own.
Although wireless networking and mobile computing are often related, they
are not identical, as Fig. I -5 shows. Here we see a distinction between fixed
wireless and mobile wireless networks. ven notebook computers are sometimes
wired. For example, if a traveler plugs a notebook computer into the wired net-
work jack in a hotel room, he has mobility without a wireless network.
Conversely, some wireless computers are not mobile. In the home, and in
offices or hotels that lack suitable cabling, it can be more convenient to connect
desktop computers or media players wirelessly than to install wires. Installing a
wireless network may require little more than buying a small box with some elec-
tronics in it, unpacking it, and plugging it in. This solution may be far cheaper
than having workmen put in cable ducts to wire the building.
Finally, there are also true mobile, wireless applications, such as people walk-
ing around stores with a handheld computers recording inventory. At many busy