11I ICTRobuZrishN E&ldquo;HAh. !
simulators with the players on one team trying to shoot down the players on the
opposing team. Virtual worlds provide a persistent setting in which thousands of
users can experience a shared reality with three-dimensional graphics.
Our last category is ubiquitous computing, in which computing is embedded
into everyday life, as in the vision of VMark wWeiser ( I99 l ). Vlany homes are al-
ready wired with security systems that include door and window sensors, and
there are many more sensors that can be folded in to a smart home monitor, such
as energy consumption. Your electricity, gas and water meters could also report
usage over the network. This would save money as there would be no need to
send out meter readers. And your smoke detectors could call the fire department
instead of making a big noise (which has little value if no one is home). As the
cost of sensing and communication drops, more and more measurement and re-
porting will be done with networks.
Increasingly, consumer electronic devices are networked. For example, some
high-end cameras already have a wireless network capability and use it to send
photos to a nearby display for viewing. Professional sports photographers can
also send their photos to their editors in real-time, first wirelessly to an access
point then over the Internet. Devices such as televisions that plug into the wall
can use power-line networks to send information throughout the house over the
wires that carry electricity. It may not be very surprising to have these objects on
the network, but ohjects that we do not think of as computers may sense and com-
municate information too. For example, your shower may record water usage.
give you visual feedback while you lather up, and report to a home environmental
monitoring application when you are done to help save on your water bill.
A technology called RFI3 (Radi0 Frequency IDentification) will push this
idea even further in the future. RFID tags are passive (i.e., have no battery) chips
the size of stamps and they can already be affixed to books, passports, pets, credit
cards, and other items in the home and out. This lets R FID readers locate and
communicate with the items over a distance of up to several meters, depending on
the kind of RFID. Originally, RFID was commercialized to replace barcodes. It
has not succeeded yet because barcodes are free and RFID tags cost a few cents.
Of course, RFID tags offer much more and their price is rapidly declining. They
may turn the real world into the Internet of things (I&rsquo;I&rsquo;U. 2005).
1.I.3 Mohile I Isers
VMobile computers, such as laptop and handheld computers, are one of the
fastest-growing segments of the computer industry. Their sales have already
overtaken those of desktop computers. wVhy would anyone want one? People on
the go often want to use their mobile devices to read and send email, tweet, watch
movies, download music, play games, or simply to surf the wVeb for information.
They want to do all of the things they do at home and in the office. Naturally, they
want to do them from anywhere on land, sea or in the air.