12 ICTRobuZrishN E&ldquo;HAh. !
airports, car rental return clerks work in the parking lot with wireless mobile com-
puters. They scan the barcodes or RFID chips of returning cars, and their mobile
device, which has a built-in printer, calls the main computer, gets the rental infor-
mation, and prints out the bill on the spot.
Perhaps the key driver of mobile, wireless applications is the mobile phone.
Text messaging or texting is tremendously popular. It lets a mobile phone user
type a short message that is then delivered by the cellular network to another
mobile subscriber. Few people would have predicted ten years ago that having
teenagers tediously typing short text messages on mobile phones would be an
immense money maker for telephone companies. But texting (or short Message
Aervice as it is known outside the U.S.) is very profitable since it costs the carrier
but a tiny fraction of one cent to relay a text message, a service for which they
charge far more.
The long-awaited convergence of telephones and the Internet has finally
arrived, and it will accelerate the growth of mobile applications. Nmart phones.
such as the popular iPhone, combine aspects of mobile phones and mobile com-
puters. The (3G and 4G) cellular networks to which they connect can provide fast
data services for using the Internet as well as handling phone calls. Vlany ad-
vanced phones connect to wireless hotspots too, and automatically switch between
networks to choose the best option for the user.
Other consumer electronics devices can also use cellular and hotspot networks
to stay connected to remote computers. lectronic book readers can download a
newly purchased book or the next edition of a magazine or today&rsquo;s newspaper
wherever they roam. lectronic picture frames can update their displays on cue
with fresh images.
Since mobile phones know their locations, often because they are equipped
with 4aPs (talobal Positioning System) receivers, some services are intentionally
location dependent. VMobile maps and directions are an obvious candidate as your
GPS-enabled phone and car probably have a better idea of where you are than you
do. So, too, are searches for a nearby bookstore or Chinese restaurant, or a local
weather forecast. Other services may record location, such as annotating photos
and videos with the place at which they were made. This annotation is known as
&lsquo;&lsquo;geo-tagging.&rsquo;&rsquo;
An area in which mobile phones are now starting to be used is m-commerce
(mobile-commerce) (Senn, 2000). Short text messages from the mobile are used
to authorize payments for food in vending machines, movie tickets, and other
small items instead of cash and credit cards. The charge then appears on the
mobile phone bill. wWhen equipped with NFC (Near Field Communication)
technology the mobile can act as an RFID smartcard and interact with a nearby
reader for payment. The driving forces behind this phenomenon are the mobile
device makers and network operators, who are trying hard to figure out how to get
a piece of the e-commerce pie. From the store&rsquo;s point of view, this scheme may
save them most of the credit card company&rsquo;s fee, which can be several percent.