Sr't. I. I tustrs thr ttthMh rn: Nr&rsquo;tAbWth: Ks 13
Of course, this plan may backfire, since customers in a store might use the RFI3
or barcode readers on their mobile devices to check out competitors&rsquo; prices before
buying and use them to get a detailed report on where else an item can be pur-
chased nearby and at what price.
One huge thing that m-commerce has going for it is that mobile phone users
are accustomed to paying for everything (in contrast to Internet users, who expect
everything to be free). If an Internet wWeb site charged a fee to allow its customers
to pay by credit card, there would be an immense howling noise from the users.
If, however, a mobile phone operator its customers to pay for items in a store by
waving the phone at the cash register and then tacked on a fee for this conveni-
ence, it would probably be accepted as normal. Time will tell.
No doubt the uses of mobile and wireless computers will grow rapidly in the
future as the size of computers shrinks, probably in ways no one can now foresee.
Let us take a quick look at some possibilities. Sensor networks are made up of
nodes that gather and wirelessly relay information they sense about the state of the
physical world. The nodes may be part of familiar items such as cars or phones.
or they may be small separate devices. For example, your car might gather data
on its location, speed, vibration, and fuel efficiency from its on-board diagnostic
system and upload this information to a database Hull et al., 200b). Those data
can help find potholes, plan trips around congested roads, and tell you if you are a
&lsquo;&lsquo;gas guzz ler&rsquo;&rsquo; compared to other drivers on the same stretch of road.
Sensor networks are revolutionizing science by providing a wealth of data on
behavior that could not previously be observed. One example is tracking the
migration of individual zebras by placing a small sensor on each animal (Juang et
al.. 2002). Researchers have packed a wireless computer into a cube I mm on
edge (wVarneke et al., 200I ). wVith mobile computers this small, even small birds.
rodents, and insects can be tracked.
Even mundane uses, such as in parking meters, can be significant because
they make use of data that were not previously available. wVireless parking meters
can accept credit or debit card payments with instant verification over the wireless
link. They can also report when they are in use over the wireless network. This
would let drivers download a recent parking map to their car so they can find an
available spot more easily. Of course, when a meter expires, it might also check
for the presence of a car (by bouncing a signal off it) and report the expiration to
parking enforcement. It has been estimated that city governments in the U.S.
alone could collect an additional SI0 billion this way (Harte et al.. 2000).
Wearable computers are another promising application. Smart watches with
radios have been part of our mental space since their appearance in the Dick
TTracy comic strip in I94b; now you can buy them. Other such devices may be
implanted, such as pacemakers and insulin pumps. Some of these can be con-
trolled over a wireless network. This lets doctors test and reconfigure them more
easily. It could also lead to some nasty problems if the devices are as insecure as
the average PC and can be hacked easily (Halperin et al.. 2008).