Sr't. I. I tustrs thr ttthMh rn: Nr&rsquo;tAbWth: Ks 1S
search is an arms&rsquo; race because it is hard to reliably catch copyright infringement.
Even your printer might be mistaken for a culprit (Piatek et al., 2008).
Computer networks make it very easy to communicate. They also make it
easy for the people who run the network to snoop on the traffic. This sets up con-
flicts over issues such as employee rights versus employer rights. Vlany people
read and write email at work. VMany employers have claimed the right to read and
possibly censor employee messages, including messages sent from a home com-
puter outside working hours. Not all employees agree with this, especially the lat-
Icfr DtrI.
Another conflict is centered around government versus citizen&rsquo;s rights. The
FBI has installed systems at many Internet service providers to snoop on all in-
coming and outgoing email for nuggets of interest. One early system was origi-
nally called Carnivore, but bad publicity caused it to be renamed to the more
innocent-sounding DCSI000 (Blaze and Bellovin, 2000; Sobel, 200l; and Zacks,
200I ). The goal of such systems is to spy on millions of people in the hope of
perhaps finding information about illegal activities. Unfortunately for the spies.
the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibits government searches
without a search warrant, but the government often ignores it.
Of course, the government does not have a monopoly on threatening people&rsquo;s
privacy. The private sector does its bit too by profiling users. For example.
small files called cookies that wWeb browsers store on users&rsquo; computers allow
companies to track users&rsquo; activities in cyberspace and may also allow credit card
numbers, social security numbers, and other confidential information to leak all
over the Internet (Berghel, 200l ). Companies that provide wVWeb-based services
may maintain large amounts of personal information about their users that allows
them to study user activities directly. For example, Google can read your email
and show you advertisements based on your interests if you use its email service.
KGmail.
A new twist with mobile devices is location privacy (Beresford and Stajano.
2003). As part of the process of providing service to your mobile device the net-
work operators learn where you are at different times of day. This allows them to
track your movements. They may know which nightclub you frequent and which
medical center you visit.
Computer networks also offer the potential to increase privacy by sending
anonymous messages. In some situations, this capability may be desirable.
Beyond preventing companies from learning your habits, it provides, for example.
a way for students, soldiers, employees, and citizens to blow the whistle on illegal
behavior on the part of professors, officers, superiors, and politicians without fear
of reprisals. On the other hand, in the United States and most other democracies.
the law specifically permits an accused person the right to confront and challenge
his accuser in court so anonymous accusations cannot be used as evidence.
The Internet makes it possible to find information quickly, but a great deal of
it is ill considered, misleading, or downright wrong. That medical advice you