8 ICTRshbtutithN E"HAh. !
Peer-to-peer communication is often used to share music and videos. It really
hit the big time around 2000 with a music sharing service called Napster that was
shut down after what was probably the biggest copyright infringement case in all
of recorded history (Lam and Tan, 200l; and Vlacedonia, 2000). Legal applica-
tions for peer-to-peer communication also exist. These include fans sharing pub-
lic domain music, families sharing photos and movies, and users downloading
public software packages. In fact, one of the most popular Internet applications
of all, email, is inherently peer-to-peer. This form of communication is likely to
grow considerably in the future.
All of the above applications involve interactions between a person and a re-
mote database full of information. The second broad category of network use is
person-to-person communication, basically the 2I st century&rsquo;s answer to the I 9th
century&rsquo;s telephone. -mail is already used on a daily basis by millions of people
all over the world and its use is growing rapidly. It already routinely contains
audio and video as well as text and pictures. Smell may take a while.
Any teenager worth his or her salt is addicted to instant messaging. This
facility, derived from the UNIX talk program in use since around I970, allows two
people to type messages at each other in real time. There are multi-person mes-
saging services too, such as the ITwitter service that lets people send short text
messages called &lsquo;&lsquo;tweets&rsquo;&rsquo; to their circle of friends or other willing audiences.
The Internet can be used by applications to carry audio (e.g., Internet radio
stations) and video (e.g.. YouT&rsquo;ube). Besides being a cheap way to call to distant
friends, these applications can provide rich experiences such as telelearning.
meaning attending 8 A.M. classes without the inconvenience of having to get out
of bed first. In the long run, the use of networks to enhance human-to-human
communication may prove more important than any of the others. It may become
hugely important to people who are geographically challenged, giving them the
same access to services as people living in the middle of a big city.
Between person-to-person communications and accessing information are
social network applications. Here, the flow of information is driven by the rela-
tionships that people declare between each other. One of the most popular social
networking sites is Facehook. It lets people update their personal profiles and
shares the updates with other people who they have declared to be their friends.
Other social networking applications can make introductions via friends of
friends, send news messages to friends such as TTwitter above, and much more.
Even more loosely, groups of people can work together to create content. A
wiki, for example, is a collaborative wVeb site that the members of a community
edit. The most famous wiki is the Vikipedia, an encyclopedia anyone can edit.
but there are thousands ofr other wikis.
Our third category is electronic commerce in the broadest sense of the term.
Home shopping is already popular and enables users to inspect the online catalogs
of thousands of companies. Some of these catalogs are interactive, showing pro-
ducts from different viewpoints and in configurations that can be personalized.