Sr't. I. I tustrs thr ttthMh rn: Nr&rsquo;tAbWth: Ks 9
After the customer buys a product electronically but cannot figure out how to use
it, online technical support may be consulted.
Another area in which e-commerce is widely used is access to financial insti-
tutions. VMany people already pay their bills, manage their bank accounts, and
handle their investments electronically. This trend will surely continue as net-
works become more secure.
One area that virtually nobody foresaw is electronic flea markets (e-flea?).
Online auctions of second-hand goods have become a massive industry. Unlike
traditional e-commerce, which follows the client-server model, online auctions
are peer-to-peer in the sense that consumers can act as both buyers and sellers.
Some of these forms of e-commerce have acquired cute little tags based on
the fact that &lsquo;&rsquo;to&rsquo;&rsquo; and &lsquo;&lsquo;2&rsquo;&rsquo; are pronounced the same. The most popular ones are
listed in Fig. I-4.
Our fourth category is entertainment. This has made huge strides in the home
in recent years, with the distribution of music, radio and television programs, and
movies over the Internet beginning to rival that of traditional mechanisms. Users
can find. buy, and download VIP3 songs and DVD-quality movies and add them
to their personal collection. ITV shows now reach many homes via IPT&rsquo;V (IP
Telekision) systems that are based on IP technology instead of cable &rsquo;T&rsquo;V or radio
transmissions. Vledia streaming applications let users tune into Internet radio sta-
tions or watch recent episodes of their favorite TV shows. Naturally, all of this
content can be moved around your house between different devices, displays and
speakers, usually with a wireless network.
Soon, it may be possible to search for any movie or television program ever
made, in any country, and have it displayed on your screen instantly. New films
may become interactive, where the user is occasionally prompted for the story
direction (should VMacbeth murder Duncan or just bide his time?) with alternative
scenarios provided for all cases. Live television may also become interactive.
with the audience participating in quiz shows, choosing among contestants, and so
OF!.
Another form of entertainment is game playing. Already we have multiperson
real-time simulation games, like hide-and-seek in a virtual dungeon, and flight