14 ICTRobuZrishN E&ldquo;HAh. !
I.IL4 Social Issues
Computer networks, like the printing press 500 years ago, allow ordinary
citizens to distribute and view content in ways that were not previously possible.
But along with the good comes the bad, as this new-found freedom brings with it
many unsolved social, political, and ethical issues. Let us just briefly mention a
few of them; a thorough study would require a full book, at least.
Social networks, message boards, content sharing sites, and a host of other ap-
plications allow people to share their views with like-minded individuals. As long
as the subjects are restricted to technical topics or hobbies like gardening, not too
many problems will arise.
The trouble comes with topics that people actually care about. like politics,
religion, or sex. Views that are publicly posted may be deeply offensive to some
people. wyorse yet, they may not be politically correct. Furthermore, opinions
need not be limited to text; high-resolution color photographs and video clips are
easily shared over computer networks. Some people take a live-and-let-live view.
but others feel that posting certain material (e.g., verbal attacks on particular
countries or religions, pornography, etc.) is simply unacceptable and that such
content must be censored. Different countries have different and conflicting laws
in this area. Thus, the debate rages.
In the past, people have sued network operators, claiming that they are re-
sponsible for the contents of what they carry, just as newspapers and magazines
are. The inevitable response is that a network is like a telephone company or the
post office and cannot be expected to police what its users say.
It should now come only as a slight surprise to learn that some network opera-
tors block content for their own reasons. Some users of peer-to-peer applications
had their network service cut off because the network operators did not find it pro-
fitable to carry the large amounts of traffic sent by those applications. Those
same operators would probably like to treat different companies differently. If
you are a big company and pay well then you get good service, but if you are a
small-time player, you get poor service. Opponents of this practice argue that
peer-to-peer and other content should be treated in the same way because they are
all just bits to the network. This argument for communications that are not dif-
ferentiated by their content or source or who is providing the content is known as
network neutrality (wyu, 2003). It is probably safe to say that this debate will go
on for a while.
VMany other parties are involved in the tussle over content. For instance, pi-
rated music and movies fueled the massive growth of peer-to-peer networks.
which did not please the copyright holders, who have threatened (and sometimes
taken) legal action. There are now automated systems that search peer-to-peer
networks and fire off warnings to network operators and users who are suspected
of intringing copyright. In the United States, these warnings are known as
DVICA takedown natices after the Digital Vfillennium Copyright Act. This