One of the most remarkable abilities of the human brain is the large capacity of its long-term memory,
stored mostly in the prefrontal cortex. we are not really sure of the size of this memory, but it is
widely accepted that the capacity of the human memory is about 2500 terabytes. To understand this;
imagine a standard hard disk-it stores about 0.5 to I terabyte of data. Similarly, the human brain is
able to store data of about 5000 hard disks. If the complete data from an adult human brain is burnt on
DvDs, it would require as many as twenty-seven lakh discs.
How are memories created ?
In the last five years there has been some research done in this area, but it is still not fully understood
how memories are created. Yet What is known is that the brain is divided into two kinds of memories
-the short term and the long -term memory.
information enters the brain through the five senses. It is the thalamus which then sends it to various 
pats of the brain  to process it (for example, all sights are processed by the visual cortex ).The
Processed information is then sent to the front prat of the brain prefronal contex-and enters into
the conscious. this is called the short-term memory. But short-term memory lasts only for a few  
minutes.
sometimes it is necessary to remember things for  a longer period of time-even years(for example,
when you are preparing for exams, or remembering traffic signals) This happens in i different way
If the brain needs to transform short-term information into a long-term memory it begin by breaking it
down into Pieces. defined by categories These categories include words. odours, colours. fruits and
vegetables, numbers, etc. So when You want to remember a diagram with lables, the brain would  
break it into colours. Patterns and  words. remarkably, according to different categories, parts of the
same information are stored in different storage areas of the brain. This entire operation of breaking
down information according to the categories and storing it in different areas of the brain is
performed by the hippocampus. When needed to recall memory, the brain is also able to rapidly
recollect information from different parts and reassemble It.
The fact that the brain has different compartments for different kinds of memories explains why some
individuals have a special ability for certain skills. For instance, mathematicians and scientists have a
highly developed memory area for numbers and equations, and great designers have a more evolved
area to store colors and patterns.
why do we remember certain things and forget others?
This is an interesting topic for neuroscientists and is still a developing area. Our current