eradicate multiple sclerosis and, along with it, many other diseases of the brain.
On a sunny afternoon in May, we reached the clinic after an hour -long drive from our hotel. The clinic
is part of the research network of the University of Edinburgh. The clinic is a single-storey building
with large glass walls which make it sunny and thus saves electricity. As we got down from our car,
we were greeted by Professor Siddharthan Chandran, who is the director of the clinic. He is also
amongst the world&rsquo;s most  renowned neurologists. Professor Chandran showed us the different
scientific experiments they were working on. The striking thing about the Ann Rowling Regenerative
Neurology Clinic is that it is not only a research facility but also a treatment centre.
We were particularly impressed by the work being conducted in the field of early detection of mental
and neural disorders. Neurons are perhaps the most complicated of cells, and it is these
complications that affect their functionalities. The first step towards the treatment of neural disorders
therefore is to identify the problem as early as possible.
Professor Chandran demonstrated his work on deploying technologies.Typically used by eye-care
professionals to help detect netural disorders. The device is similar to the one that an optometrist uses
on you,when they ask you to place your chin on a particular rest and then use a telescope-like 
equipment to look into your eyes an ask you to identify objects and their clarity.
Using similar optical scanning devices his team can man the  inside of the eye, particularly the retina,
where light from the outer eye is finally converted into images. But Professor Chandran is going
further and targeting the optical nerve. This is a  small opening in the retina which carries neurons and
photoreceptors from the eye to the brain imagine it like a data cable which caries images from the
retina to the inner brain. These optical nerves, from both the eyes, carry data at the speed of 10 Mbps
(Megabits per second), which is about twenty times the average broadband speed we use to surf the
internet!  Now as you would imagine, the optical  nerve is full of millions of neurons to transmit such a
large amount of data, for about sixteen hours every day when we are awake. Using advanced
technologies they are able to peep&rsquo; down the optical nerves using the special retina scanners for new
millimetres and make a longitudinal and cross-sectional image of It ( front-facing and sideways
images). Now these images can either show smooth nerve patterns, with one neuron over another
indicating the good health of the neurons or distortions, that is, variations in the thickness of the
neuron layers indicating the beginning of neuron decay. If such a symptom is observed, the patient is
immediately put under medical care to stop the decay and regrow the lost neurons. Such an analysis
and early detection can be done at extremely low costs and in a matter of minutes, and hence expected
to help patients worldwide. It also shows how eye care and brain care are converging to provide
better health care for humanity.
The Future of Neuroscience