has to be attached around the user&rsquo;s head, and it measures the intensity of brain waves. Remember,
brain waves are electromagnetic in nature, and the more you concentrate the stronger they will be.
The complex electromagnetic sensor in Mindflex detects and measures these waves and then uses
their intensity to control the power on the fan, which in turn controls the ball. So, the ball actually
moves around depending on what and how hard you are thinking. Srijan and I were both enthralled by
the first level of the brain machine direct interface. It is merely the tip of the iceberg.
The brain machine interface is already seeing new dimensions, and we were first-hand witnesses to
it. In 2011, we went to Australia to attend a series of events. One day, we visited the University of!
Technology, Sydney, popularly called UTS. This is one of the largest universities of science and
engineering the world over and is well known for its department of biomechanical engineering. There
we met Professor Hung Nyugen, a global expert on robotics, biomechanics and artificial intelligence.
He showed us a unique project which he was working on with some PhD students, funded by the
Motor Accident Authority of Australia. Their challenge was to help patients who are permanently
brain damaged from accidents, and hence have no control over their bodies. These patients can think
and have Perfectly normal brain activity, but because of the injury in their motor nerves, they are left
paralysed. The professor explained to us how his team was studying brain waves to detect the exact
signals that the brain generates when it thinks of various motions-going forward, backwards, left
and right. slow and fast. They found these signals remarkable different from each other. The signals
can be distinguished with a strong electromagnetic sensor and this discovery became the key to their
work. They started working on a special wheelchair whose motors were controlled by a regulator
attached to a brain wave sensor. He showed us the wheelchair, which looked like any ordinary
wheelchair with motors, but with no control panel and thick cap which had to be worn by the 
operator. One of his students enthusiastically volunteered to give us a demo and sat in the chair and 
put on the electromagnetic cap. Another student switched on the chair, which had a toggle switch
soon the operator in the chair, without touching anything, started thinking to himself, 'I must go
forward, I want to go forward.&rsquo; And the chair slowly started rolling ahead. Then the operator started
thinking about stopping the motion, and the chair stopped. Like this, we saw him turn the chair around
go back, move in angles and navigate to the door-without moving a single muscle-all with the
power of thoughts. Finally, Professor Nyugen looked at us and laughed. &lsquo;Thoughts are powerful,&rsquo; he
summed up. Professor Nyugen told us that he was now working on a car which could be controlled by
thoughts alone, but of course he could not show its working. He said, &lsquo;I am sure the car will work, but
currently the traffic police does not allow mind-driven cars!&rsquo; We all laughed and were happy to see
now the neurosciences are already converging with robotics and mechanics to help humanity.
CONVERSATIONS WITH A SCIENCE TEACHER
What is the capacity of the human memory?