understanding is that there are two very important genes-CREB Ativator and CREB Represson
which govern the formation of memories. The CREB activator stimulates the formation of long-term
memory from the current short-term memory, while CREB Repressors then stop the same and
eventually the short-term memory is forgotten. Now, what is the need of CREB Repressors? The
answer is-the brain has a limited capacity in terms of memory and some memories need to be
forgotten. For instance, imagine a scenario when one is reading a book for an examination and the
doorbell rings. Two short-term memories are created; one is the text from the book and the other is
the ringing of the doorbell. While the first needs to be retained with the help of the CREB Activator,
the ringing of the door is of no significance for a long-term memory. Hence, the CREB Repressor will
be released and the brain will soon forget the instance of door bell ringing.
This also explains why we remember some memories better than others. For instance, emotional
memories are very strong-some tend to remain for life. This is because emotions tend to increase the
CREB Activator gene and hence memories with strong emotional connections are immediately passed
for long-term storage. This also explains why rote learning never works well-uninterested reading
generates very little CREB Activator and in fact generates CREB Repressors, which makes one
quickly forget things memorized without any logic.
Another aspect is that CREB Activator is only limited and gets exhausted if used too much. Of
course, they are regenerated within a short interval. That is why studying while taking short intervals 
in between is the best way to learn.
Does the brain burn calories too?
Actually, the brain burns a lot of calories! Although the average adult human brain weight about 1.4
kilograms, which is only 2 percent of the total body weight, it demands 20 percent of our resting
metabolic rate (RMR)-which is the total amount of energy our bodies expend in twenty -four hours if
we do no work. RMR varies from person to person depending on age, gender, size and health but on
an average it is about 1300 calories, or 60 percent of the total calories burnt on an average day. This
means that the brain consumes 260 calories Just to keep things in order, roughly equal to the amount of
calories burnt in running for 3 km. That&rsquo;s about 10.8 calories every hour. This translates to about 12.6
watts of power consumption every hour-enough to keep a small CFL lamp burning all day.
But given the functions which are performed, the human brain is way more energy efficient than any
computer we have invented. For instance, IBM&rsquo;s Watson, the supercomputer that contests humans in
intelligence, depends on ninety IBM Power and 750 servers, each of which requires around 1000
watts. that is. 7,50,000,watts  in total.
so can one burn calories by thinking hard?