the whole picture whereas the right brain looks at the whole picture first and then the details
so, if they are so different, how do they function together?
There is no right or wrong with respect to the left brain and the right brain; they are two different
ways of thinking. Both parts of the brain coexist in harmony. Both the hemispheres communicate
information with each other, such as sensory observations through the thick corpus callosum
The left brain and the right brain process the information in a different manner. The left brain is
verbal and analytical while the right brain is visual and artistic. Both the right and left brains work in
a complementary manner and process the necessary information needed to provide the best results for
the human being.
Let us understand the same with the help of a simple example. Imagine you are in a mathematics class
and you are give various problems to Solve as part of a project. However, you not only need t find
the correct mathematical answer but also need to present them in a very creative manner in order to
earn the best grades. So first of all, our analytical left brain will begin working out answers for all the
problem which are asked to be sloved, Once we have got the answer, our right brain will use its
creativity and present these answers in the best possible manner. Thus, through coordination and joint
efforts, the left and the right brains provide answers to various kinds of questions and situations in our
life.
I am sure that larger animals, such as elephants and whales, have
more neurons than human being. Then why are they not more
intelligent than us?
It is true that an elephant's brain has about three times the number of neurons compared to that of a
human being
However, 97.5 per cent of the neurons in the elephant brain (251 billion) are found in the cerebellum
In contrast, the elephant&rsquo; s cerebral cortex (outer layer of brain used for intelligence, calculations;
decision and memory ) holds only 5.6 billion neurons, about one-third of the number of neurons found
in the human cerebral cortex. In fact, the human cerebral cortex has the largest number of neurons
compared to any species. This high density of neurons in the cerebral cortex gives us the highest
intelligence amongst all species. Here is a list of neurons in the cerebral cortex of different species.
SPECIES                          NEURONS IN THE CEREBRAL CORTEX
Rat                                                                                    40,00,000