From the medical angle, one can pursue a career as a neurosurgeon or even a neuro physician. This
would involve treating people with neural disorders such as Alzheimer&rsquo;s or other forms of neuron
loss, stroke, epilepsy or memory loss. Neurosurgery is considered to be one of the most difficult
forms of surgeries, which requires a high level of expertise. With the rising number of victims in
strokes and accident-related traumas, the next generation of neurosurgeons will be required to work
extensively with computer -and robot-assisted surgery. Being a neurosurgeon is similar to any other
medical profile. It would require science with biology at the  10 and 10+2 levels and then an MBBS
or other such bachelor&rsquo;s programmes in medicine. After that one has to pursue a master&rsquo;s programme,
such as Doctor of Medicine (DM) program (also called MD in some uiversities) for super
specialization in neurology. One can also study further up to the PhD level in this field. Many leading
Indian medical institutions including AIIMS (Delhi), SGPGIMS (Lucknow) and quite a few other
government and private hospitals offer excellent programmes in neurology. One can also pursue a
master&rsquo;s or a PhD programme abroad; UCLA (Los Angeles), John Hopkins University (Baltimore)
and Unrversity of Califoria (San Francisco) are considered amongst the best in the global arena
But neuroscience is not just a domain of medicine and doctors. Unravelling the mysteries of the brain
is also a subject of interest for an engineer but, of course, from a more application-based perspective.
The challenge of enabling devices to be controlled directly by the brain, or the brain machine
interface, and also using the working of the brain as a way to evolve the next generation of computing
ls an exciting future opportunity. We have seen electrical engineers and robotic experts working on 
such next-generation machines which are brain mapped, and in the next fifteen years we will probably
see humanoids or robots which look like humans being completely controlled by the brains of their
human masters. An engineer's route in neuroscience would require you to earn an engineering degree
in electrical, electronics. mechanical or computer science at the bachelor's level. While doing your
engineering you may like to develop project which help you in understanding the specific areas of
neuroscience-based engineering. To be successfull, you will have to pursue a master's level or even a 
PhD. At this higher study level, you can choose many subjects related to artificial intelligence, 
robotics and electromagnetic analysis of the brain. It would be a good idea to keep exploring and
remain updated with the new happenings in the field of neuroscience, and also write to some of the
well -known professors and experts in the area to understand their perspectives and opportunities
Another area of neuroscience relates not to the hardware but the software aspect of the brain-
thoughts and their effects. This is the area of cognitive neuroscience- the study of human cognition or
thought. This is the domain of a psychologist. Basically, the goal of this type of neuroscience is to
understand how the physical and biological parts of the brain influence or create the less tangible
parts, like thoughts, emotions, behaviours and memories. Such a career would need understanding and
expertise in the field of psychology, especially applied psychology, which can be pursued with either
humanities or science at 10+2 level.