matter. They are so named because of the difference in their appearance. White matter appears white
due to the presence of large amounts of myelin-a fatty protein that serves as an insulation function-
which assists in signal transmission, whereas the grey matter appears grey -brown due to the presence
of neuronal cell bodies and the relative lack of myelin. There is a difference in grey matter and white
matter in terms of their components, functions as well as their contribution to the brain volume and
energy consumption.
White matter connects the different areas of grey matter to the brain and the spinal cord. They carry
nerve impulses from one neuron to another, thereby helping in faster transmission of nerve signals
Grey matter mainly contains cell bodies, dendrites and synapses. In contrast to white matter, which
mainly serves to transmit nerve signals, grey matter is where such signals are generated and
processed. While white matter constitutes about 60 per cent of the brain volume, grey matter makes
up the other 40 per cent. Grey matter, however, is more energy consuming and uses up approximately
94 per cent of the total oxygen that goes to the brain
How is the right brain different from left brain?
One of the peculiar features of the human brain is that it is divided into two hemisphere-the left
brain and the right brain. Neuroscientist Dr Roger W Sperry, California Institute of Technology,
showed us that the two hemispheres of the brain are not identical to each other and are responsible
for different functions in the body. He went on to receive a Nobel Prize for the same in 1981. This
study by Dr Sperry brought about a great transformation in the field of neurology.
The right brain controls the left part of the body whereas the left brain controls the right part of the 
body. Hence, damage to one side of brain affects the opposite side of the body
The left brain processes the hearing and speech functions in the body. It carries out mathematical and
logical computations and also controls language. It Is mainly in charge of spatial abilities, face
recognition and processing music. The right brain, on the other hand, helps to understand visual
images and make sense of what we see
One of the best examples to understand the difference between the right and the left brain is to note the
difference in the manner in which people give directions. People with a dominant left brain will be
very specific-'Take the first right from the fourth building on the street, go about 500 metres, take a
left and then you reach the XYZ street&rsquo; while on the other hand, the right brain will convey the
directions like this-&rsquo;Look at that red-coloured building, take a right from there. You will find a large
blue-coloured school building at the end of the street from where you can take a left and you will
reach the XYZ Street
To conclude, we,can say that the left brain looks at the pieces first and them puts them together to get