Now, for every action and its subsequent reaction, neurons have a major role to play. They act as
&lsquo;messengers&rsquo;. For instance, if you touch a hot surface, the neurons at your fingertips pass on the
information to the nearby neurons and this continues till the information ultimately reaches the brain
The brain then processes this information and generates a command for your hand muscles to move
the finger away. This again happens through the same channel of neurons. Neurons have special sites
called synapses, from which information is transmitted from one neuron to another. Imagine a synapse
as a small gap with transmitters, much like an electrical outlet, where another neuron can plug into its
synapse, which acts as a receptor. One neuron can have a large number of such synapses, so it can
communicate in all directions. The human brain has about 100 billion neurons and quadrillion
synapses. This makes understanding the human brain a truly complicated assignment
Coming back to Professor Kasthuri and his presentation at the Brain Research Center, we were made
to sit in front of a large screen inside the meeting room. Before starting, the professor clarified to us,
&lsquo;Much of our work is currently limited to understanding the brain of a rat. It is far less complicated
and hence relatively easier to understand. Once we have achieved this, we hope to replicate the same
for the human brain
Professor Kasthuri then showed us a picture of a very special equipment-a nano knife made of
diamond. He said. 'We take the brain of a dead rat. Then we use the nano knife to cut slices less than
30 nanometres long. In this way, a single brain generates hundreds of thousands of slices.&rsquo;
He continued, 'But that is not the difficult task. We cam make about 2500 slices in a single day. The
real task begins after this Each of these slices is labelled and then placed under an electron
microscope, We store this as a digital image in a computer.'
Can you guess how large this data from a single rat brain would be? It would need more than one
petabyte of storage to preserve digital images of the rat&rsquo;s brain. This is equal to storing about 40
billion photos! Now, once these photographs are ready, Professor Kasthuri and his team map specific
neurons in these images to observe their pattern and dynamics. It is like a colour-coded map showing
neurons in the brain. In this way, they can study any specific neuron in a rat&rsquo;s brain
When we went back to the hotel after this meeting, our heads were full of Ideas and questions. We
were thinking what if we were to scale Professor Kasthuri&rsquo;s experiment to understand the human
mind. We then spent some time analysing the neural patterns of different animals.The results are
shown below
NAME OF SPECIES          TOTAL NUMBER OF NEURONS IN THE ENTIRE NERVOUS SYSTEM  
Roundworm                                                                                                                       300
Jellyfish                                                                                                                               800