course, the long-term memory of what shots to play to which kind of ball is already stored in your!
long-term memory all over the cerebral cortex (outer lay er) of the brain. At this stage, your brain
waves would be about 40-50 cycles per second
Then when the bowler throws the ball at you, your brain waves increase rapidly to up to 100 cycles
per second. First, the neurons in your eyes, situated in the retina, will process the images of the balls
continuously and keep transmitting this, through the optical nerve, to the thalamus, or the relay station
of the brain in a single brain wave. The thalamus would then quickly determine this to be a visual
signal and send it to the back of the brain in the occipital lobe where it would be processed in the
visual cortex for its speed, shape, colour, etc. This would be completed perhaps in a few brain
waves
In the next few brain cycles, the occipital lobe will transmit the processed information to many parts
of the brain. It will go towards the front outer layer of the brain. in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)
which makes decisions on what shot to play. It will also go to the amygdala, located in the middle of
the brain, which controls emotional reactions such as reflexes. The same information will also go to
the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), above the amygdala, which determines rewards (how many runs
can you get for a particular shot selected). This may take many cycles, as different rewards may come
up for different shots and the final selection would be based on the best possible reward.
Once the selection is finally made, the next step is to signal the muscles in your body,especially the  
hand and legs, to move in order to execute the shot. This again takes a few cycles of brain waves
This is controlled by multiple parts of the brain in the case of generating motion, besides the waves
the brain. a significant role is played by the cerebellum. located at the very back of the brain below
the ears cerebellum controls balance posture and equilibrium
After this the neural signal travels down the spinal cord along the backbone into the respective body
parts which make the muscles move. In case the ball changes the trajectory and there is a need to
determine a new shot, the complete cycle may be repeated
This is the reason why it is difficult to play a very fast ball and also a ball which turns and spins a lot
In case of a rapidly travelling ball, the brain is unable to process and determine a reaction within the
100-cycles-per -second limit. In case of a turning and spinning ball, the brain has to reprocess the
decision-making again and again because of the changing path of the ball.
In 2OI4, we had another unique experience in the field of neural sciences. This time it was in
Scotland, at the Ann Rowling Regenerative Neurology Clinic. This clinic is situated in the beautiful
city of Edinburgh. Ann Rowling Clinic is funded by J.K. Rowling, the bestselling author of the Harry
Potter series, in memory of her mother, Anne, who died at the age of forty -five due to multiple
sclerosis a neural disorder where the neurons degenerate J.K. Rowling set out on a mission to