medical sciences, the human lifespan has seen considerable increase. For instance, a person born in
Japan today can expect to live up to eighty -eight years! Even the global average is about seventy -one
years. This increase of lifespan has posed a new challenge to neural sciences-that of age-related
degeneration of brain cells, which unlike other organs Just cannot be replaced.
The most prominent of these ailments is Alzheimer&rsquo;s disease (AD). AD mostly occurs in people over
sixty -five years of age-when the brain loses the ability to store short-term memories and so the
patient keeps forgetting things they have done or people they have met in the last five to ten minutes
Eventually, it leads to long-term memory loss as well, with patients forgetting their relatives.
languages and even basic functions like swallowing and breathing. There are about three crore cases
of Alzheimer&rsquo;s disease currently, most of them in the higher age groups. Alzheimer&rsquo;s is predicted to
affect one in 85 people globally by 2050, making it the most costly disease to society. So far, there is
no cure for Alzheimer&rsquo;s disease and many other neural disorders. This is the challenge for the next
generation of neuroscientists-to find ways to replace human brain cells. Some work in this direction
has already begun. On one hand there is an effort to develop medicine which can strengthen neurons
and their ability to live longer lifespans; on the other hand, something truly unique is being attempted
We saw in the Ann Rowling clinic in Scotland how there is a very promising scientific research
being conducted around actually growing neural cells from stem cells it self. In the future, these
neurons, grown in Petri dishes, could be replaced in the ageing brain-but of course we are at least
10-15 years away from this becoming a reality The challenge is also to accurately pinpoint which
cell to place in which location of the brain.
Now we come to the third area, which is truly exciting and a bridge between engineering and 
anatomy. On the face of it, it looks like a work of science fiction. Since the discovery of fire and 
wheel, humans have mastered the ability to control machines; today we can do all our daily activities.
cooking, eating, reading, typing, brushing, industrial applications, transport and virtually anything you
can think of with the help of machines. These machines are controlled by our hands and fingers and, in
some cases. like the acceleration of car, with the help of legs and feet too. However, modern
neuroscientists consider this whole process of controlling machines with limbs an inefficient
exercise, as it limits us to using only a certain number of devices with our limited limbs and fingers
Also, this method is slow and those individuals, whose mobility is restricted, are severely deterred in
their ability to use machines. So what is the next-generation control mechanism?
It is called Brain Machine Interface. Sometime back, Srijan purchased a new test toy from Amazon&rsquo;s
online market. It was a neatly packed device called Mindflex. (You can see a picture of this in the
image section.) We were surprised to see how the game worked. Mindflex is rated amongst the most
innovative products in the market today. It consists of a set of hoops and baskets and a small light
ball, which can be lifted on a cushion of air using a set of fans under It. The ball appears to rise in the
air, and by controlling the flow of air you can make it go back and forth to cross the hoops and the
baskets. But the tricky and the innovative part is how you control the fan&rsquo;s air speed. It is controlled
by the power of your concentration! Mindflex comes with an electromagnetic sensor. headset which