snail 11000
Fruit fly 1,00,000
Ant 2,50,000
Honeybee 9,50,000
Frog 1,60,00,000
Rat 20,00,00,000
Octopus 30,00,00,000
Human  86,00,00,00,000
Notice that the humans have almost 430 times the number of neurons as that of a rat. It would take
years to fully map a single human brain, and one would need supercomputers far more powerful than
the ones we have today. Further, it is estimated that to map an entire human brain, it would take about
500 petabytes of data, about five times the memory space used by Facebook to store the information
of its one billion accounts worldwide! That's not all the hard drives needed to store the neural map
of a single human brain would occupy an entire building of lifteen  storeys. The human brain is needed
the most complicated gift of evaluvation. Understanding this complex network of neurons and synapses 
is the ultimate challenge for any neuroscientist.
The human brain, though complicated, is also a well evolved organ of the body. The brain has gone
through multiple stages of evolution as we have evolved from reptiles to mammals and then to
advanced intelligent forms human beings. In fact this is represented in the human brain itself. It can
be imagined as consisting of three different layers, one on top of the other. The oldest and innermost
layer is called the reptilian brain and it contains the brain stem ( connecting to the spinal cord), the 
cerebellum and other parts where our brain is similar to replies. These control basic functions like
the heartbeat, lungs, digestion, blood pressure, etc. This part of the brain brain evolved 500 million years
ago.
The next layer is called mammalian brain and It evolved as we transformed into mammals from
reptiles. It Is located Just above the reptilian brain and consists of something called the limbic system;
which involves emotions, basic memory and sorting ability, say to determine friend and foe. It
consists of
the hippocampus, where short-term memories are converted into long-term memories
the amygdala, a small almond-shaped part of the brain which governs emotions, especially
fear
the thalamus, which acts as a relay station, gathering all sensory information like sight,
sound, touch, smell and taste, and transmits It to the various parts of the brain and
the hypothalamus, which regulates body temperature (remember reptiles are cold-blooded.