Neuroscience will essentially progress In three directions in the future. First It can help understand
the human brain itself, which can even lead to better computers. Secondly, it can help deal with the
ailments of the neural systems, the current methods are quite nascent and many neural disorders are
still beyond treatment. The third area will emerge in the field of creating bridges between the human
brain and machines and perhaps one day, between one brain and another. Let us explore this further.
The human brain is the most difficult organ to understand. we are still miles away from fully
comprehending how it works, how thoughts come to us, how memories are created and how we make
decisions. The brain is even more complicated because while it is made up of proteins, the building
block of neurons, it also exhibits electromagnetic properties. Understanding the brain will help us
evolve new methods of learning. It might someday perhaps be even possible to download data and
information directly on to the brain-enabling y ears of education to be transferred to the brain within
a matter of minutes! In fact, there has already been some progress in this direction at the University of
California, where a group of neuroscientists have made it possible to video,record the thoughts and
imagination of a person. They begin by showing the subject a large number of videos and i\mages and
recording the eletromagnetic signals generated in the brain when the viewing is  happening. Then they
map these signals ti visual elements such as colour, texture shape etc. as seen by the person Of
course, that means mapping millions and millions of data sets from single person. Once a map has
been created, one can recreate any image from the brain signals. The trick is, even when you imagine
a photo, almost the same areas of the brain work as those-when you actually see the photo. Hence, if
you are then asked to imagine a painting of a flower your visual cortex will start working and then
the MRI (an instrument used to measure the brain electromagnetic activity)will pick up the
corresponding brain signals and send it to the computer. The computer matches the signals with the
existing database and reconstructs the image. Such reconstructed images are quite accurate,though
there is scope for improvemeat If this works then in the future the other way round will also work 
which means you send electromagnetic singnals to the brain and it will construct images without the
need of eyes. lmagine, computers could simply read your thoughts then. you could store your
memories on a hard disk and most importantly, people suffering from visual impairment could be
made to see without the need of eyes at all
The second future area of application of neurosciences would be to deal with the ailments of the
neural systems. The brain, as we all know, is a highly protected organ of the body, located in the
cranium. It is well supplied with oxyge;, almost 20 per cent of the total blood and oxygen circulated
in the body goes to the brain, making it the highest priority organ of the human body. Brain cells hence
have considerably longer lifespans compared to other cells. But there is a catch-w e are born with
almost all the brain cells, which Is about 100 billion neurons. Hardly any brain cells are added after
birth, and so the human body Is hardly capable of replacing ageing and dead brain cells. Cells once
lost in the brain, especially the cerebral cortex, can never be replaced. Up until the 1900s, the
average lifespan of humans was about thirty-five to forty y ears and hence the irreplaceability of the
brain cells was never an issue. But from the middle of the twentieth century, thanks to advances in