It is unlikely that the calorie consumption of the brain varies much with the amount of thinking one
does. Most of the brain is almost always occupied with the routine functions of breathing, involuntary
muscular actions and other essential activities. Also, since the brain controls your state of hunger as
well, any fatigue in the brain is accompanied with hunger. That is why one feels hungry after
concentrating deeply on studies!
Wh at is MRL?
One of the most important inventions in the field of neurology has been that of the MRI-Magnetic
Resonance Imaging. It has helped us to decode the thinking of a human brain and get an insight into its
functioning.
Radio waves are a type of an electromagnetic radiation which can pass through a human tissue
without damaging it. MRI machines take advantage of this fact and allow the waves to freely
penetrate through the skull, which helps the scientists to trace out the thoughts moving inside the brain
Most of us have seen these MRI machines. We have watched them in moving and science-based
series on television, where the patient Is made to enter a huge cylindrical structure. They have a
magnetic field which is twenty to sixty thousand times larger than the strength of the Earth's magnetic
field.
This is how the MRI machine work:the patient lies flat and is made to enter the MRI machine. The
machine is made up of two large coils which create the magnetic field. When this magnetic field is 
turned on. the nucleus of the atoms atoms inside the body align horizontally in the direction of the field. A
small pulse of energy is then passed through it which turns these nuclei upside down
When the nuclei later revert to their original position, they emit a secondary pulse of radio energy
which is analysed by the MRI machine. By analysing that, the MRI machine reconstructs a remarkable
image of the inside of the brain. With the help of such images, computers then create for us beautiful
diagrams of the brain in three dimensions
MRI machines are less harmful than X-ray machines because they do not emit harmful ions. However,
these machines are extremely costly and hence, the doctors need to share such facility. But Just like
technology, development will bring down the cost over time.
What is grey mater and how is it different from while matter in the
brain?
The central nervous system in a human body can be divided into two parts-white matter and grey