but mammals are warm-blooded with their body temperature being constant)
But what separates us from other mammals is the third and outermost layer of the brain-the cerebral
cortex. In the typical brain diagram or model, the curvy portion with folds is nothing but the cerebral
cortex. It is so folded and curved that It is able to pack itself into the skull easily despite the fact that
it has a larger area. It is like a 2-millimetre-thick sheet folded into multiple layers. Typically, the
cerebral cortex is also called the grey matter, which lends intelligence and memory. It makes up for
about 80 per cent of the weight of the brain and controls most of the functions of memory, sensory
data, speech, understanding languages, making decisions, controlling most of the motion of body, etc
A diagram of the parts of the brain is shown in the image section.)
The brain essentially works on electromagnetic signals, which means It has electrical and magnetic
signals running through it all the time, similar to a mobile phone or any other electronic device, but of
course of a very different frequency and properties. When you think or see or try to remember
something, the thousand of neurons inside the brain rapidly exchange information with each other
leading t a surge-like waves in an ocean as they are 'fired' one after the other. The waves in an
ocean are quite slow,about ten seconds per wave, or one-tenth cycle per second. the brain wave can
be quite rapid, anything between 10 to100 cycles per second. (Comparatively, a mobile phone using
radio waves has a faster wave cycle, about 200 million cycles per second.) It is these brain waves
which allow different parts of the brain to communicate with each other, thereby helping us to make
decisions.
For instance, imagine a scenario where you are batting in a game of cricket. The bowler hurls a ball
at you from twenty-two yards, which would  take less than one second to reach the batsman During
that time you have seen the ball, analysed its path for any swing or spin, determined where it would
bounce off the ground, predicted its further path and then moved your hands also factored in the
bat) to hit the ball at a given angle of course, while doing all this, you have also factored in the
memory of the fielders and the runs you want to make from the shot. All this sounds complicated
doesn't it? But when you play cricket, this seems effortless. Let us see how this information actually
transmits through the brain and on to other neurons in the body