We live in fragments. You are one thing at the office, another at home; you
talk about democracy and in your heart you are autocratic, you talk about loving
your neighbours, yet kill him with competition, there is one part of you working,
looking, independently of the other. Are you aware of this fragmentary existence
n yourself? And is it possible for a brain that has broken up its own functioning,
its own thinking, into fragments - is it possible for such a brain to be aware of the
whole field? ls it possible to look at the whole of consciousness completely,
totally, which means to be a total human being?
If, in order to try to understand the whole structure of the me’, the self, with all
its extraordinary complexity, you go step by step, uncovering layer by layer,
examining every thought, feeling and motive, you will get caught up in the
analytical process which may take you weeks, months, years - and when you
admit time into the process of understanding yourself, you must allow for every
form of distortion because the self is a complex entity, moving, living, struggling,
wanting, denying, with pressures and stresses and influences of all sorts
continually at work on it. So you will discover for yourself that this is not the way;
you will understand that the only way to look at yourself is totally, immediately,
without time; and you can see the totality of yourself only when the mind is not
fragmented. What you see in totality is the truth.
Now can you do that? Most of us cannot because most of us have never
approached the problem so seriously, because we have never really looked at
ourselves. Never. We blame others, we explain things away or we are frightened
to look. But when you look totally you will give your whole attention, your whole
being, everything of yourself, your eyes, your ears, your nerves; you will attend
with complete self-abandonment, and then there is no room for fear, no room for
contradiction, and therefore no conflict.
Attention is not the same thing as concentration. Concentration is exclusion,;
attention, which is total awareness, excludes nothing. It seems to me that most of
21