Chapter 14
IN THE LIFE we generally lead there is very little solitude. Even when we are
alone our lives are crowded by so many influences, so much knowledge, so many
memories of so many experiences, so much anxiety, misery and conflict that our
mind become duller and duller, more and more insensitive, functioning in a
monotonous routine. Are we ever alone? Or are we carrying with us all the
burdens of yesterday?
There is a rather nice story of two monks walking from one village to another
and they come upon a young girl sitting on the bank of a river, crying. And one of
the monks goes up to her and says,Sister, what are you crying about?’ She
says, You see that house over there across the river? l came over this morning
early and had no trouble wading across but now the river has swollen and l can’t
get back. There is no boat.’Oh,’ says the monk, that is no problem at all’, and
he picks her up and carries her across the river and leaves her on the other side.
And the two monks go on together. After a couple of hours, the other monk says,
Brother, we have taken a vow never to touch a woman. What you have done is a
terrible sin. Didn’t you have pleasure, a great sensation, in touching a woman’?’
and the other monk replies, ’l left her behind two hours ago. You are still carrying
her, aren’t you?’That is what we do. We carry our burdens all the time, we never
die to them, we never leave them behind. it is only when we give complete
attention to a problem and solve it immediately - never carrying it over to the next
day, the next minute - that there is solitude. Then, even, if we live in a crowded
house or are in a bus, we have solitude. And that solitude indicates a fresh mind,
an innocent mind.
To have inward solitude and space is very important because it implies
freedom to be, to go, to function, to fly. After all, goodness can only flower in
space just as virtue can flower only when there is freedom. We may have political
freedom but inwardly we are not free and therefore there is no space. No virtue,
88