say, Watch the movement of your big toe, watch it, watch it, watch it, there are
other systems which advocate sitting in a certain posture, breathing regularly or
practising awareness. All this is utterly mechanical. The other method gives you a
certain word and tells you that if you go on repeating it you will have some
extraordinary transcendental experience. T his is sheer nonsense. It is a form of
self-hypnosis. By repeating Amen or Om or Coca-Cola indefinitely you will
obviously have-a certain experience because by repeti- fion the mind becomes
quiet. It is a well known phenomenon which has been practised for thousands of
years in India - Mantra Yoga it is called. By repetition you can induce the mind to
be gentle and soft but it is still a petty, shoddy, little mind. You might as well put a
piece of stick you have picked up in the garden on the mantelpiece and give it a
flower every day. In a month you will be worshipping it and not to put a flower in
front of it will become a sin.
Meditation is not following any system, it is not constant repetition and
imitation. Meditation is not concentration. It is one of the favourite gambits of
some teachers of meditation to insist on their pupils learning concentration - that
is, fixing the mind on one thought and driving out all other thoughts. This is a
most stupid, ugly thing, which any schoolboy can do because he is forced to. lt
means that all the time you are having a battle between the insistence that you
must concentrate on the one hand and your mind on the other which wanders
away to all sorts of other things, whereas you should be attentive to every
movement of the mind wherever it wanders. When your mind wanders off it
means you are interested in something else.
Meditation demands an astonishingly alert mind; meditation is the
understanding of the totality of life in which every form of fragmentation has
ceased. Meditation is not control of thought, for when thought is controlled it
breeds conflict in the mind, but when you understand the structure and origin of
thought, which we have already been into, then thought will not interfere. That
96