Thought is crooked because it can invent anything and see things that are not
there. It can perform the most extraordinary tricks, and therefore it cannot be
depended upon. But if you understand the whole structure of how you think, why
you think, the words you Use, the way you behave in your daily life, the way you
talk to people, the way you treat people, the way you walk, the way you eat - if
you are aware of all these things then your mind will not deceive you, then there
is nothing to be deceived. The mind then is not something that demands, that
subjugates; it becomes extraordinarily quiet, pliable, sensitive, alone, and in that
state there is no deception whatsoever.
Have you ever noticed that when you are in a state of complete attention the
observer, the thinker, the centre, the ‘me’, comes to an end? In that state of
attention thought begins to wither away. If one wants to see a thing very clearly,
one’s mind must be very quiet, without all the prejudices, the chattering, the
dialogue, the images, the pictures - all that must be put aside to look. And it is
only in silence that you can observe the beginning of thought - not when you are
searching, asking questions, waiting for a reply. So it is only when you are
completely quiet, right through your being, having put that question,'What is the
beginning of thought?’, that you will begin to see, out of that silence, how thought
takes shape.
If there is an awareness of how thought begins then there is no need to control
thought. We spend a great deal of time and waste a great deal of energy all
through our lives, not only at school, trying to control our thoughts -This is a
good thought, l must think about it a lot. This is an ugly thought, l must suppress
it.’There is a battle going on all the time between one thought and another, one
desire and another, one pleasure dominating all other pleasures. But if there is an
awareness of the beginning of thought, then there is no contradiction in thought.
Now when you hear a statement like ‘Thought is always old’ or 'Time is
sorrow’, thought begins to translate it and interpret it. But the translation and
86