our minds will become stupid and heavy, and therefore we depend on a
challenge, an experience, to give us more excitement, more intensity, to make
our minds sharper. But in fact this dependence on challenges and experiences to
keep us awake, only makes our minds duller - It doesn’t really keep us awake at
all. So I ask myself, is it possible to keep awake totally, not peripherally at a few
points of my being, but totally awake without any challenge or any experience?
This implies a great sensitivity, both physical and psychological; it means l have
to be free of all demands, for the moment l demand l will experience. And to be
free of demand and satisfaction necessitates investigation into myself and an
understanding of the whole nature of demand.
Demand is born out of duality. l am unhappy and l must be happy’. In that
very demand that l must be happy is unhappiness. When one makes an effort to
be good, in that very goodness is its opposite, evil. Everything affirmed contains
its own opposite, and effort to overcome strengthens that against which it strives.
When you demand an experience of truth or reality, that very demand is born out
of your discontent with what is, and therefore the demand creates the opposite.
And in the opposite there is what has been. So one must be free of this incessant
demand, otherwise there will be no end to the corridor of duality. This means
knowing yourself so completely that the mind is no longer seeking.
Such a mind does not demand experience;, it cannot ask for a challenge or
know a challenge; it does not say, ’l am asleep’ or 'l am awake’. It is completely
what it is. Only the frustrated, narrow, shallow mind, the conditioned mind, is
always seeking the more. ls it possible then to live in this world without the more -
without this everlasting comparison’? Surely it is? But one has to find out for
oneself.
Investigation into this whole question is meditation. That word had been used
both in the East and the West in a most unfortunate way. There are different
schools of mediation, different methods and systems. There are systems which
95