mind is as sharp as a needle and as strong as a diamond. It is no good just sitting
back and asking, ’How am l to get such a mind”?’ You have to want it as you want
your next meal, and to have if you must see that what makes your mind dull and
stupid is this sense of invulnerability which has built walls round itself and which
is part of this condemnation and justification. lf the mind can be rid of that, then
you can look, study, penetrate, and perhaps come to a state that is totally aware
of the whole problem.
So let us come back to the central issue - is it possible to eradicate violence in
ourselves? It is a form of violence to say, You haven’t changed, why haven’t
you?’ l am not doing that. It doesn’t mean a thing to me to convince you of
anything. It is your life, not my life. The way you live is your affair. l am asking
whether it is possible for a human being living psychologically in any society to
clear violence from himself inwardly? If it is, the very process will produce a
different way of living in this world.
Most of us have accepted violence as a way of life. Two dreadful wars have
taught us nothing except to build more and more barriers between human beings
that is, between you and me. But for those of us who want to be rid of violence,
how is it to be done? l do not think anything is going to be achieved through
analysis, either by ourselves or by a professional. We might be able to modify
ourselves slightly, live a little more quietly with a little more affection, but in itself it
will not give total perception. But I must know how to analyse which means that in
the process of analysis my mind becomes extraordinarily sharp, and it is that
quality of sharpness, of attention, of seriousness, which will give total perception.
One hasn’t the eyes to see the whole thing at a glance; this clarity of the eye is
possible only if one can see the details, then jump. Some of us, in order to rid
ourselves of violence, have used a concept, an ideal, called non-violence, and we
think by having an ideal of the opposite to violence, non-violence, we can get rid
of the fact, the actual - but we cannot. We have had ideals without number, all the
43