consciousness, part of thought, then it is incapable of finding out. What it can find
out is only a state of awareness. But if in that state of awareness there is still an
entity who says,l must be aware, l must practise awareness’, that again is
another image.
This awareness that the observer is the observed is not a process of
identification with the observed. To identify ourselves with something is fairly
easy. Most of us identify ourselves with something - with our family, our husband
or wife, our nation - and that leads to great misery and great wars. We are
considering something entirely different and we must understand it not verbally
but in our core, right at the root of our being. In ancient China before an artist
began to paint anything - a tree, for instance - he would sit down in front of it for
days, months, years, it didn’t matter how long, until he was the tree. He did not
identify himself with the tree but he was the tree. This means that there was no
space between him and the tree, no space between the observer and the
observed, no experiencer experiencing the beauty, the movement, the shadow,
the depth of a leaf, the quality of colour. He was totally the tree, and in that state
only could he paint.
Any movement on the part of the observer, if he has not realized that the
observer is the observed, creates only another series of images and again he is
caught in them. But what takes place when the observer is aware that the
observer is the observed? Go slowly, go very slowly, because it is a very complex
thing we are going into now. What takes place? The observer does not act at all.
The observer has always said, l must do something about these images, l must
suppress them or give them a different shape; he is always active in regard to the
observed, acting and reacting passionately or casually, and this action of like and
dislike on the part of the observer is called positive action - ’l like, therefore l must
hold. I dislike therefore l must get rid of.’ But when the observer realizes that the
thing about which he is acting is himself, then there is no conflict between himself
and the image. He is that. He is not separate from that. When he was separate,
81