So if in seeking something fundamental, such as what is truth, pleasure is the
measure, you have already projected what that experience will be and therefore it
is no longer valid.
What do we mean by experience”? ls there anything new or original in
experience”? Experience is a bundle of memories responding to a challenge and it
can respond only according to its background, and the cleverer you are at
interpreting the experience the more it responds. So you have to question not
only the experience of another but your own experience. If you don’t recognize an
experience it isn’t an experience at all. Every experience has already been
experienced or you wouldn’t recognize it. You recognize an experience as being
good, bad, beautiful, holy and so on according to your conditioning, and therefore
the recognition of an experience must inevitably be old.
When we demand an experience of reality - as we all do, don’t we? - to
experience it we must know it and the moment we recognise it we have already
projected it and therefore it is not real because it is still within the field of though
and time. If thought can think about reality it cannot be reality. We cannot
recognize a new experience. It is impossible. We recognize only something we
have already known and therefore when we say we have had a new experience it
is not new at all. To seek further experience through expansion of consciousness,
as is being done through various psychedelic drugs, is still within the field of
consciousness and therefore very limited.
So we have discovered a fundamental truth, which is that a mind that is
seeking, craving, for wider and deeper experience is a very shallow and dull mind
because it lives always with its memories.
Now if we didn’t have any experience at all, what would happen to us? We
depend on experiences, on challenges, to keep us awake. If there were no
conflicts within ourselves, no changes, no disturbances, we would all be fast
asleep. So challenges are necessary for most of us, we think that without them
94