Really to care is to care as you would for a free or a plant, watering it, studying
its needs, the best soil for if, looking after it with gentleness and tenderness - but
when you prepare your children to fit into society you are preparing them to be
killed. If you loved your children you would have no war.
When you lose someone you love you shed tears - are your tears for yourself
or for the one who is dead? Are you crying for yourself or for another? Have you
ever cried for another? Have you ever cried for your son who was killed on the
battlefield? You have cried, but do those tears come out of self-pity or have you
cried because a human being has been killed? If you cry out of self-pity your
tears have no meaning because you are concerned about yourself. If you are
crying because you are bereft of one in whom you have invested a great deal of
affection, it was not really affection. When you cry for your brother who dies cry
for him. It is very easy to cry for yourself because he is gone. Apparently you are
crying because your heart is touched, but it is not touched for him, it is only
touched by self-pity and self-pity makes you hard, encloses you, makes you dull
and stupid.
When you cry for yourself, is it love - crying because you are lonely, because
you have been left, because you are no longer powerful - complaining of your lot,
your environment - always you in tears? If you understand this, which means to
come in contact with it as directly as you would touch a tree or a pillar or a hand,
then you will see that sorrow is self-created, sorrow is created by thought, sorrow
s the outcome of time. l had my brother three years ago, now he is dead, now I
am lonely, aching, there is no one to whom l can look for comfort or
companionship, and it brings tears to my eyes.
You can see all this happening inside yourself if you watch it. You can see it
fully, completely, in one glance, not take analytical time over it. You can see in a
moment the whole structure and nature of this shoddy little thing called me’, my
tears, my family, my nation, my belief, my religion - all that ugliness, it is all inside
68