endlessly from other people’s ideas and think and talk a great deal about art. Why
is it that we depend so much upon art? ls it a form of escape, of stimulation? If
you are directly in contact with nature, if you watch the movement of a bird on the
wing, see the beauty of every movement of the sky, watch the shadows on the
hills or the beauty on the face of another, do you think you will want to go to any
museum to look at any picture? Perhaps ift is because you do not know how to
look at all the things about you that you resort to some form of drug to stimulate
you to see better.
There is a story of a religious teacher who used to talk every morning to his
disciples. One morning he got on to the platform and was just about to begin
when a little bird came and sat on the window sill and began to sing, and sang
away with full heart. Then it stopped and flew away and the teacher said,The
sermon for this morning is over’.
It seems to me that one of our greatest difficulties is to see for ourselves really
clearly, not only outward things but inward life. When we say we see a free or a
flower or a person, do we actually see them? Or do we merely see the image that
the word has created? That is, when you look at a tree or at a cloud of an evening
full of light and delight, do you actually see it, not only with your eyes and
intellectually, but totally, completely ?
Have you ever experimented with looking at an objective thing like a tree
without any of the associations, any of the knowledge you have acquired about it,
without any prejudice, any judgement, any words forming a screen between you
and the tree and preventing you from seeing it as it actually is?Try it and see
what actually takes place when you observe the tree with all your being, with the
totality of your energy. In that intensity you will find that there is no observer at all;
there is only attention. It is when there is inattention that there is the observer and
the observed. When you are looking at something with complete attention there is
no space for a conception, a formula or a memory. This is important to
73