One asks oneself then whether it is possible to come upon this thing without
inviting, without waiting, without seeking or exploring - just for it to happen like a
cool breeze that comes in when you leave the window open? You cannot invite
the wind but you must leave the window open, which doesn’t mean that you are in
a state of waiting, that is another form of deception. It doesn’t mean you must
open yourself to receive; that is another kind of thought.
Haven’t you ever asked yourself why it is that human beings lack this thing?
They beget children, they have sex, tenderness, a quality of sharing something
together in companionship, in friendship, in fellowship, but this thing - why is it
they haven’t got it? Haven’t you ever wondered lazily on occasion when you are
walking by yourself in a filthy street or sitting in a bus or are on holiday by the
seaside or walking in a wood with a lot of birds, trees, streams and wild animals -
hasn’t it ever come upon you to ask why it is that man, who has lived for millions
and millions of years, has not got this thing, this extraordinary unfading flower?
Why is it that you, as a human being, who are so capable, so clever, so cunning,
so competitive, who have such marvellous technology, who go to the skies and
under the earth and beneath the sea, and invent extraordinary electronic brains -
why is it that you haven’t got this one thing which matters? l don’t know whether
you have ever seriously faced this issue of why your heart is empty.
What would your answer be if you put the question to yourself - your direct
answer without any equivocation or cunningness? Your answer would be in
accordance with your intensity in asking the question and the urgency of it. But
you are neither intense nor urgent, and that is because you haven’t got energy;
energy being passion - and you cannot find any truth without passion - passion
with a fury behind if, passion in which there is no hidden want. Passion is a rather
frightening thing because if you have passion you don’t know where it will take
you.
103