beyond nationality’. And this feeling l have that l must understand the violence in
myself brings tremendous vitality and passion to find out.
But to be beyond violence l cannot suppress it, l cannot deny it, l cannot say,
Well, it is a part of me and that’s that’, o 'I don’t want it’. l have to look at it, I
have to study it, l must become very intimate with it and l cannot become intimate
with it if l condemn it or justify it. We do condemn if, though; we do justify it.
Therefore l am saying, stop for the time being condemning it or justifying it.
Now, if you want to stop violence, if you want to stop wars, how much vitality,
how much of yourself, do you give to it? Isn’t it important to you that your children
are killed, that your sons go into the army where they are bullied and butchered?
Don’t you care? My God, if that doesn’t interest you, what does? Guarding your
money? Having a good time? Taking drugs? Don’t you see that this violence in
yourself is destroying your children? Or do you see it only as some abstraction?
All right then, if you are interested, attend with all your heart and mind to find
out. Don’t just sit back and say, Well, tell us all about it’. I point out to you that
you cannot look at anger nor at violence with eyes that condemn or justify and
that if this violence is not a burning problem to you, you cannot put those two
things away. So first you have to learn, you have to learn how to look at anger,
how to look at your husband, your wife, your children; you have to listen to the
politician, you have to learn why you are not objective, why you condemn or
justify. You have to learn that you condemn and justify because it is part of the
social structure you live in, your conditioning as a German or an Indian or a
Negro or an American or whatever you happen to have been born, with all the
dulling of the mind that this conditioning results in. To learn, to discover,
something fundamental you must have the capacity to go deeply. If you have a
blunt instrument, a dull instrument, you cannot go deeply. So what we are doing
is sharpening the instrument, which is the mind - the mind which has been made
dull by all this justifying and condemning. You can penetrate deeply only if your
42