remained in the mind as a memory, rouses the thought,Be careful, don’t fall ill
again’.
So we see that thought engenders one kind of fear. But is there fear at all
apart from that? ls fear always the result of thought and, if it is, is there any other
form of fear? We are afraid of death - that is, something that is going to happen
tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, in time. There is a distance between actuality
and what will be. Now thought has experienced this state; by observing death it
says, ’l am going to die.’ Thought creates the fear of death, and if it doesn’t is
there any fear at all’? ls fear the result of thought? If it is, thought being always
old, fear is always old. As we have said, there is no new thought. If we recognise
it, it is already old. So what we are afraid of is the repetition of the old - the
thought of what has been projecting into the future. Therefore thought is
responsible for fear. This is so, you can see it for yourself. When you are
confronted with something immediately there is no fear. It is only when thought
comes in that there is fear.
Therefore our question now is, is it possible for the mind to live completely,
totally, in the present? It is only such a mind that has no fear. But to understand
this, you have to understand the structure of thought, memory and time. And in
understanding it, understanding not intellectually, not verbally, but actually with
your heart, your mind, your guts, you will be free from fear, then the mind can use
thought without creating fear.
Thought, like memory, is, of course, necessary for daily living. It is the only
instrument we have for communication, working at our jobs and so forth. Thought
is the response to memory, memory which has been accumulated through
experience, knowledge, tradition, time. And from this background of memory we
react and this reaction is thinking. So thought is essential at certain levels but
when thought projects itself psychologically as the future and the past, creating
33