outward discipline, leadership, idealism, is to study it, then that very act of
studying is not only discipline but the negative of it, and the very denial is a
positive act. So we are negating all those things that are considered important to
bring about the quietness of the mind.
Thus we see it is not control that leads to quietness. Nor is the mind quiet
when it has an object which is so absorb- ing that it gets lost in that object. This is
like giving a child an interesting toy; he becomes very quiet, but remove the toy
and he returns to his mischief-making. We all have our toys which absorb us and
we think we are very quiet but if a man is dedicated to a certain form of activity,
scientific, literary or whatever it is, the toy merely absorbs him and he is not really
quiet at all.
The only silence we know is the silence when noise stops, the silence when
thought stops - but that is not silence. Silence is something entirely different, like
beauty, like love. And this silence is not the product of a quiet mind, it is not the
product of the brain cells which have understood the whole structure and say,
'For God’s sake be quiet, then the brain cells themselves produce the silence and
that is not silence. Nor is silence the outcome of attention in which the observer is
the observed, then there is no friction, but that is not silence.
You are waiting for me to describe what this silence is so that you car
compare it, interpret it, carry it away and bury it. It cannot be described. What can
be described is the known, and the freedom from the known can come into being
only when there is a dying every day to the known, to the hurts, the flatteries, to
all the images you have made, to all your experiences - dying every day so that
the brain cells themselves become fresh, young, innocent. But that innocency,
that freshness, that quality of tenderness and gentleness, does not produce love;
it is not the quality of beauty or silence.
That silence which is not the silence of the ending of noise is only a small
beginning. It is like going through a small hole to an enormous, wide, expansive
91