Also in order to understand ourselves we need a great deal of humility. If you
start by saying, ’l know myself’, you have already stopped learning about
yourself; or if you say, ‘There is nothing much to learn about myself because l am
just a bundle of memories, ideas, experiences and traditions’, then you have also
stopped learning about yourself. The moment you have achieved anything you
cease to have that quality of innocence and humility; the moment you have a
conclusion or start examining from knowledge, you are finished, for then you are
translating every living thing in terms of the old. Whereas if you have no foothold,
f there is no certainty, no achievement, there is freedom to look, to achieve. And
when you look with freedom it is always new. A confident man is a dead human
being.
But how can we be free to look and learn when our minds from the moment
we are born to the moment we die are shaped by a particular culture in the
narrow pattern of the ’me'? For centuries we have been conditioned by
nationality, caste, class, tradition, religion, language, education, literature, art,
custom, convention, propaganda of all kinds, economic pressure, the food we
eat, the climate we live in, our family, our friends, our experiences - every
influence you can think of - and therefore our responses to every problem are
conditioned.
Are you aware that you are conditioned? That is the first thing to ask yourself,
not how to be free of your conditioning. You may never be free of if, and if you
say, 'l must be free of it’, you may fall into another trap of another form of
conditioning. So are you aware that you are conditioned? Do you know that even
when you look at a tree and say,That is an oak tree’, or that is a banyan tree’,
the naming of the free, which is botanical knowledge, has so conditioned your
mind that the word comes between you and actually seeing the tree? To come in
contact with the tree you have to put your hand on it and the word will not help
you to touch it.
16