fear as well as pleasure, the mind is made dull and therefore inaction is
inevitable.
so l ask myself,Why, why, why, do l think about the future and the past in
terms of pleasure and pain, knowing that such thought creates fear? Isn’t it
possible for thought psychologically to stop, for otherwise fear will never end?’
One of the functions of thought is to be occupied all the time with something.
Most of us want to have our minds continually occupied so that we are prevented
from seeing ourselves as we actually are. We are afraid to be empty. We are
afraid to look at our fears.’
Consciously you can be aware of your fears but at the deeper levels of your
mind are you aware of them’? And how are you going to find out the fears that are
hidden, secret? ls fear to be divided into the conscious and the subconscious?
This is a very important question. The specialist, the psychologist, the analyst,
have divided fear into deep superficial layers, but if you follow what the
psychologist says or what l say, you are understanding our theories, our dogmas,
our knowledge, you are not understanding yourself. You cannot understand
yourself according to Freud or lung, or according to me. Other people’s theories
have no importance whatever. It is of yourself that you must ask the question, is
fear to be divided into the conscious and subconscious? Or is there only fear
which you translate into different forms? There is only one desire; there is only
desire. You desire. The objects of desire change, but desire is always the same.
So perhaps in the same way there is only fear.  You are afraid of all sorts of things
but there is only one fear.
When you realize that fear cannot be divided you will see that you have put
away altogether this problem of the subconscious and so have cheated the
psychologists and the analysts. When you understand that fear is a single
movement which expresses itself in different ways and when you see the
movement and not the object to which the movement goes, then you are facing
34