In this torn desert world there is no love because pleasure and desire play the
greatest roles, yet without love your daily life has no meaning. And you cannot
have love if there is no beauty. Beauty is not something you see - not a beautiful
tree, a beautiful picture, a beautiful building or a beautiful woman. There is beauty
only when your heart and mind know what love is. Without love and that sense of
beauty there is no virtue, and you know very well that, do what you will, improve
society, feed the poor, you will only be creating more mischief, for without love
there is only ugliness and poverty in your own heart and mind. But when there is
love and beauty, whatever you do is right, whatever you do is in order. If you
know how to love, then you can do what you like because it will solve all other
problems.
so we reach the point. can the mind come upon love without discipline,
without thought, without enforcement, without any book, any teacher or leader -
come upon it as one comes upon a lovely sunset?
It seems to me that one thing is absolutely necessary and that is passion
without motive - passion that is not the result of some commitment or attachment,
passion that is not lust. H man who does not know what passion is will never
know love because love can come into being only when there is total self-
abandonment.
A mind that is seeking is not a passionate mind and to come upon love without
seeking it is the only way to find it - to come upon it unknowingly and not as the
result of any effort or experience. Such a love, you will find, is not of time; such a
love is both personal and impersonal, is both the one and the many. Like a flower
that has perfume you can smell it or pass it by. That flower is for everybody and
for the one who takes trouble to breathe it deeply and look at it with delight.
Whether one is very near in the garden, or very far away, it is the same to the
flower because it is full of that perfume and therefore it is sharing with everybody.
70