thought. When you think you will be happy tomorrow, then you have an image of
yourself achieving a certain result in time. Thought, through observation, through
desire, and the continuity of that desire sustained by further thought, says,
‘Tomorrow I shall be happy. Tomorrow I shall have success. Tomorrow the world
will be a beautiful place.’ So thought creates that interval which is time.
Now we are asking, can we put a stop to time? Can we live so completely that
there is no tomorrow for thought to think about? Because time is sorrow. That is,
yesterday or a thousand yesterday’s ago, you loved, or you had a companion
who has gone, and that memory remains and you are thinking about that
pleasure and that pain - you are looking back, wishing, hoping, regretting, so
thought, going over it again and again, breeds this thing we call sorrow and gives
continuity to time.
So long as there is this interval of time which has been bred by thought, there
must be sorrow, there must be continuity of fear. So one asks oneself can this
interval come to an end? If you say, Will it ever end?', then it is already an idea,
something you want to achieve, and therefore you have an interval and you are
caught again.
Now take the question of death which is an immense problem to most people.
You know death, there it is walking every day by your side. ls it possible to meet it
so completely that you do not make a problem of it at all? In order to meet it in
such a way all belief, all hope, all fear about it must come to an end, otherwise
you are meeting this extraordinary thing with a conclusion, an image, with a
premeditated anxiety, and therefore you are meeting it with time.
Time is the interval between the observer and the observed. That is, the
observer, you, is afraid to meet this thing called death. You don’t know what it
means; you have all kinds of hopes and theories about it, you believe in
reincarnation or resurrection, or in something called the soul, the atman, a
spiritual entity which is timeless and which you call by different names. Now have
60