How do you know you are conditioned? What tells you? What tells you you are
hungry? - not as a theory but the actual fact of hunger? In the same way, how do
you discover the actual fact that you are conditioned? Isn’t it by your reaction to a
problem, a challenge? You respond to every challenge according to your
conditioning and your conditioning being inadequate will always react
inadequately.
When you become aware of it, does this conditioning of race, religion and
culture bring a sense of imprisonment? Take only one form of conditioning,
nationality, become seriously, completely aware of it and see whether you enjoy it
or rebel against it, and if you rebel against it, whether you want to break through
all conditioning. If you are satisfied with your conditioning you will obviously do
nothing about it, but if you are not satisfied when you become aware of it, you will
realize that you never do anything without it. Never! And therefore you are always
living in the past with the dead.
You will be able to see for yourself how you are conditioned only when there is
a conflict in the continuity of pleasure or the avoidance of pain. If everything is
perfectly happy around you, your wife loves you, you love her, you have a nice
house, nice children and plenty of money, then you are not aware of your
conditioning at all. But when there is a disturbance - when your wife looks at
someone else or you lose your money or are threatened with war or any other
pain or anxiety - then you know you are conditioned. When you struggle against
any kind of disturbance or defend yourself against any outer or inner threat, then
you know you are conditioned. And as most of us are disturbed most of the time,
either superficially or deeply, that very disturbance indicates that we are
conditioned. So long as the animal is petted he reacts nicely, but the moment he
is antagonized the whole violence of his nature comes out.
We are disturbed about life, politics, the economic situation, the horror, the
brutality, the sorrow in the world as well as in ourselves, and from that we realize
17