when you see that truth is something living, moving, which has no resting place,
which is in no temple, mosque or church, which no religion, no teacher, no
philosopher, nobody can lead you to - then you will also see that this living thing
is what you actually are - your anger, your brutality, your violence, your despair,
the agony and sorrow you live in. In the understanding of all this is the truth, and
you can understand it only if you know how to look at those things in your life.
And you cannot look through an ideology, through a screen of words, through
hopes and fears.
So you see that you cannot depend upon anybody. There is no guide, no
teacher, no authority. There is only you - your relationship with others and with
the world - there is nothing else. When you realize this, it either brings great
despair, from which comes cynicism and bitterness, or, in facing the fact that you
and nobody else is responsible for the world and for yourself, for what you think,
what you feel, how you act, all self-pity goes. Normally we thrive on blaming
others, which is a form of self-pity.
Can you and l, then, bring about in ourselves without any outside influence,
without any persuasion, without any fear of punishment - can we bring about in
the very essence of our being a total revolution, a psychological mutation, so that
we are no longer brutal, violent, competitive, anxious, fearful, greedy, envious
and all the rest of the manifestations of our nature which have built up the rotten
society in which we live our daily lives?
It is important to understand from the very beginning that l am not formulating
any philosophy or any theological structure of ideas or theological concepts. It
seems to me that all ideologies are utterly idiotic. What is important is not a
philosophy of life but to observe what is actually taking place in our daily life,
inwardly and outwardly. If you observe very closely what is taking place and
examine it, you will see that it is based on an intellectual conception, and the
intellect is not the whole field of existence; it is a fragment, and a fragment,
8