no quality that is worth while, can function or grow without this vast space within
oneself. And space and silence are necessary because it is only when the mind is
alone, uninfluenced, untrained, not held by infinite varieties of experience, that it
can come upon something totally new.
One can see directly that it is only when the mind is silent that there is a
possibility of clarity. T he whole purpose of meditation in the East is to bring about
such a state of mind - that is, to control thought, which is the same as constantly
repeating a prayer to quieten the mind and in that state hoping to understand
one’s problems. But unless one lays the foundation, which is to be free from fear,
free from sorrow, anxiety and all the traps one lays for oneself, l do not see how it
is possible for a mind to be actually quiet. This is one of the most difficult things to
communicate. Communication between us implies, doesn’t it, that not only must
you understand the words l am using but that we must both, you and l, be intense
at the same time, not a moment later or a moment sooner and capable of
meeting each other on the same level? And such communication is not possible
when you are interpreting what you are reading according to your own
knowledge, pleasure or opinions, or when you are making a tremendous effort to
comprehend.
It seems to me that one of the greatest stumbling blocks in life is this constant
struggle to reach, to achieve, to acquire. We are trained from childhood to acquire
and to achieve - the very brain cells themselves create and demand this pattern
of achievement in order to have physical security, but psychological security is
not within the field of achievement. We demand security in all our relationships,
attitudes and activities but, as we have seen, there is actually no such thing as
security. To find out for yourself that there is no form of security in any
relationship - to realize that psychologically there is nothing permanent - gives a
totally different approach to life. It is essential, of course, to have outward security
- shelter, clothing, food - but that outward security is destroyed by the demand for
psychological security.
89