We think that living is always in the present and that dying is something that
awaits us at a distant time. But we have never questioned whether this battle of
everyday life is living at all. We want to know the truth about reincarnation, we
want proof of the survival of the soul, we listen to the assertion of clairvoyants
and to the conclusions of psychical research, but we never ask, never, how to live
to live with delight, with enchantment, with beauty every day. We have accepted
life as it is with all its agony and despair and have got used to if, and think of
death as some- thing to be carefully avoided. But death is extraordinarily like life
when we know how to live. You cannot live without dying. You cannot live if you
do not die psychologically every minute. This is not an intellectual paradox.  To
live completely, wholly, every day as if it were a new loveliness, there must be
dying to everything of yesterday, otherwise you live mechanically, and a
mechanical rind can never know what love is or what freedom is.
Most of us are frightened of dying because we don’t know what it means to
live. We don’t know how to live, therefore we don’t know how to die. As long as
we are frightened of life we shall be frightened of death. The man who is not
frightened of life is not frightened of being completely insecure for he understands
that inwardly, psychologically, there is no security. When there is no security
there is an endless movement and then life and death are the same.The man
who lives without conflict, who lives with beauty and love, is not frightened of
death because to love is to die.
If you die to everything you know, including your family, your memory,
everything you have felt, then death is a purification, a rejuvenating process; then
death brings innocence and it is only the innocent who are passionate, not the
people who believe or who want to find out what happens after death.
To find out actually what takes place when you die you must die. This isn’t a
joke. You must die - not physically but psychologically, inwardly, die to the things
you have cherished and to the things you are bitter about. If you have died to one
62