All outward forms of change brought about by wars, revolutions, reformations,
laws and ideologies have failed completely to change the basic nature of man
and therefore of society. As human beings living in this monstrously ugly world,
let us ask ourselves, can this society, based on competition, brutality and fear,
come to an end? Not as an intellectual conception, not as a hope, but as an
actual fact, so that the mind is made fresh, new and innocent and can bring about
a different world altogether? It can only happen, l think, if each one of us
recognises the central fact that we, as individuals, as human beings, in whatever
part of the world we happen to live or whatever culture we happen to belong to,
are totally responsible for the whole state of the world.
We are each one of us responsible for every war because of the
aggressiveness of our own lives, because of our nationalism, our selfishness, our
gods, our prejudices, our ideals, all of which divide us. And only when we realize,
not intellectually but actually, as actually as we would recognise that we are
hungry or in pain, that you and l are responsible for all this existing chaos, for all
the misery throughout the entire world because we have contributed to it in our
daily lives and are part of this monstrous society with its wars, divisions, its
ugliness, brutality and greed - only then will we act.
But what can a human being do - what can you and l do - to create a
completely different society? We are asking ourselves a very serious question. ls
there anything to be done at all? What can we do? Will somebody tell us? People
have told us. The so-called spiritual leaders, who are supposed to understand
these things better than we do, have told us by trying to twist and mould us into a
new pattern, and that hasn’t led us very far; sophisticated and learned men have
told us and that has led us no further. We have been told that all paths lead to
truth - you have your path as a Hindu and someone else has his path as a
Christian and another as a Muslim, and they all meet at the same door - which is,
when you look at it, so obviously absurd. Truth has no path, and that is the
beauty of truth, it is living. A dead thing has a path to it because it is static, but
7