central issue and l see - perhaps you see also? - that the very nature of desire, if
not properly understood, must inevitably lead to conflict. Desire is always in
contradiction. l desire contradictory things - which doesn’t mean that l must
destroy desire, suppress, control or sublimate it - l simply see that desire itself is
contradictory. It is not the objects of desire but the very nature of desire which is
contradictory. And l have to understand the nature of desire before l can
understand conflict. In ourselves we are in a state of contradiction, and that state
of contradiction is brought about by desire - desire being the pursuit of pleasure
and the avoidance of pain, which we have already been into.
So we see desire as the root of all contradiction - wanting something and not
wanting it - a dual activity. When we do something pleasurable there is no effort
involved at all, is there? But pleasure brings pain and then there is a struggle to
avoid the pain, and that again is a dissipation of energy. Why do we have duality
at all? There is, of course, duality in nature - man and woman, light and shade,
night and day - but inwardly, psychologically, why do we have duality? Please
think this out with me, don’t wait for me to tell you. You have to exercise your own
mind to find out. My words are merely a mirror in which to observe yourself. Why
do we have this psychological duality? ls it that we have been brought up always
to compare what is’ with what should be'? We have been conditioned in what is
right and what is wrong, what is good and what is bad, what is moral and what is
immoral. Has this duality come into being because we believe that thinking about
the opposite of violence, the opposite of envy, of jealousy, of meanness, will help
us to get rid of those things? Do we use the opposite as a lever to get rid of what
is? Or is it an escape from the actual?
Do you Use the opposite as a means of avoiding the actual which you don’t
know how to deal with? Or is it because you have been told by thousands of
years of propaganda that you must have an ideal - the opposite of what is’ - in
order to cope with the present? When you have an ideal you think it helps you to
52