you found out for yourself whether there is a soul? Or is it an idea that has been
handed down to you? ls there something permanent, continuous, which is
beyond thought? If thought can think about it, it is within the field of thought and
therefore it cannot be permanent because there is nothing permanent within the
field of thought. To discover that nothing is permanent is of tremendous
importance for only then is the mind free, then you can look, and in that there is
great joy.
You cannot be frightened of the unknown because you do not know what the
unknown is and so there is nothing to be frightened of. Death is a word, and it is
the word, the image, that creates fear. So can you look at death without the
mage of death? As long as the image exists from which springs thought, thought
must always create fear. Then you either rationalize your fear of death and build
a resistance against the inevitable or you invent innumerable beliefs to protect
you from the fear of death. Hence there is a gap between you and the thing of
which you are afraid. In this time-space interval there must be conflict which is
fear, anxiety and self-pity. Thought, which breeds the fear of death, says,Let’s
postpone it, let’s avoid it, keep it as far away as possible, let’s not think about it' -
but you are thinking about it. When you say,l won’t think about it’, you have
already thought out how to avoid it. You are frightened of death because you
have postponed it.
We have separated living from dying, and the interval between the living and
the dying is fear. That interval, that time, is created by fear. Living is our daily
torture, daily insult, sorrow and confusion, with occasional opening of a window
over enchanted seas. That is what we call living, and we are afraid to die, which
s to end this misery. We would rather cling to the known than face the unknown -
the known being our house, our furniture, our family, our character, our work, our
knowledge, our fame, our loneliness, our gods - that little thing that moves around
incessantly within itself with its own limited pattern of embittered existence.
61