then you have not thrown off the burden, you have not discarded the dead weight
of authority.
But when you have thrown it off and have this energy in which there is no fear
at all - no fear of making a mistake, no fear of doing right or wrong - then is not
that energy itself the mutation’? We need a tremendous amount of energy and we
dissipate it through fear but when there is this energy which comes from throwing
off every form of fear, that energy itself produces the radical inward revolution.
You do not have to do a thing about it.
So you are left with yourself, and that is the actual state for a man to be who is
very serious about all this; and as you are no longer looking to anybody or
anything for help, you are already free to discover. And when there is freedom,
there is energy; and when there is freedom it can never do anything wrong.
Freedom is entirely different from revolt. There is no such thing as doing right or
wrong when there is freedom. You are free and from that centre you act. And
hence there is no fear, and a mind that has no fear is capable of great love. And
When there is love it can do What it Will.
What we are now going to do, therefore, is to learn about ourselves, not
according to me or to some analyst or philosopher - because if we learn about
ourselves according to someone else, we learn about them, not ourselves - we
are going to learn what we actually are.
Having realized that we can depend on no outside authority in bringing about
a total revolution within the structure of our own psyche, there is the immensely
greater difficulty of rejecting our own inward authority, the authority of our own
particular little experiences and accumulated opinions, knowledge, ideas and
deals. You had an experience yesterday which taught you something and what it
taught you becomes a new authority - and that authority of yesterday is as
destructive as the authority of a thousand years. To understand ourselves needs
no authority either of yesterday or of a thousand years because we are living
11