domain, but if we want merely to play with the problem for intellectual
entertainment we shall not get very far.
You may feel that you yourself are very serious about the problem but that as
long as so many other people in the world are not serious and are not prepared to
do anything about if, what is the good of your doing anything’? l don’t care
whether they take it seriously or not. I take it seriously, that is enough. l am not
my brother’s keeper. l myself, as a human being, feel very strongly about this
question of violence and I will see to it that in myself l am not violent - but I cannot
tell you or anybody else, 'Don’t be violent.’ It has no meaning - unless you
yourself want it. So if you yourself really want to understand this problem of
violence let us continue on our journey of exploration together.
Is this problem of violence out there or here? Do you want to solve the
problem in the outside world or are you questioning violence itself as it is in you?
If you are free of violence in yourself the question is,How am l to live in a world
full of violence, acquisitiveness, greed, envy, brutality? Will l not be destroyed?’
That is the inevitable question which is invariably asked. When you ask such a
question it seems to me you are not actually living peacefully. If you live
peacefully you will have no problem at all. You may be imprisoned because you
refuse to join the army or shot because you refuse to fight - but that is not a
problem; you will be shot. it is extraordinarily important to understand this.
We are trying to understand violence as a fact, not as an idea, as a fact which
exists in the human being, and the human being is myself. And to go into the
problem l must be completely vulnerable, open, to it. l must expose myself to
myself - not necessarily expose myself to you because you may not be interested
but l must be in a state of mind that demands to see this thing right to the end
and at no point stops and says l will go no further.
Now it must be obvious to me that l am a violent human being. l have
experienced violence in anger, violence in my sexual demands, violence in
39