problem of time is a very important one to understand if we are to resolve this life
which we have helped to make as monstrous and meaningless as it is.
The first thing to understand is that we can look at time only with that
freshness and innocency of mind which we have already been into. We are
confused about our many problems and lost in that confusion. Now if one is lost
in a wood, what is the first thing one does? One stops, doesn’t one? One stops
and looks round. But the more we are confused and lost in life the more we chase
around, searching, asking, demanding, begging. So the first thing, if l may
suggest it, is that you completely stop inwardly. And when you do stop inwardly,
psychologically, your mind becomes very peaceful, very clear. T hen you can
really look at this question of time.
Problems exist only in time, that is when we meet an issue incompletely. This
incomplete coming together with the issue creates the problem. When we meet a
challenge partially, fragmentarily, or try to escape from it - that is, when we meet
it without complete attention - we bring about a problem. And the problem
continues so long as we continue to give it incomplete attention, so long as we
hope to solve if one of these days.
Do you know what time is? Not by the watch, not chronological time, but
psychological time? It is the interval between idea and action. An idea is for self-
protection obviously; it is the idea of being secure. Action is always immediate; it
is not of the past or of the future; to act must always be in the present, but action
is so dangerous, so uncertain, that we conform to an idea which we hope will give
us a certain safety.
Do look at this in yourself. You have an idea of what is right or wrong, or an
ideological concept about yourself and society, and according to that idea you are
going to act. Therefore the action is in conformity with that idea, approximating to
the idea, and hence there is always conflict. There is the idea, the interval and
action. And in that interval is the whole field of time. That interval is essentially
59