Chapter 15
WE ALL WANT experiences of some kind - the mystical experience, the
religious experience, the sexual experience, the experience of having a great
deal of money, power, position, domination. As we grow older we may have
finished with the demands of our physical appetites but then we demand wider,
deeper and more significant experiences, and we try various means to obtain
them - expanding our consciousness, for instance, which is quite an art, or taking
various kinds of drugs. This is an old trick which has existed from time
immemorial - chewing a piece of leaf or experimenting with the latest chemical to
bring about a temporary alteration in the structure of the brain cells, a greater
sensitivity and heightened perception which give a semblance of reality. This
demand for more and more experiences shows the inward poverty of man. We
think that through experiences we can escape from ourselves but these
experiences are conditioned by what we are. If the mind is petty, jealous,
anxious, it may take the very latest form of drug but it will still see only its own
little creation, its own little projections from its own conditioned background.
Most of us demand completely satisfying, lasting experiences which cannot be
destroyed by thought. So behind this demand for experience is the desire for
satisfaction, and the demand for satisfaction dictates the experience, and
therefore we have not only to understand this whole business of satisfaction but
also the thing that is experienced. To have some great satisfaction is a great
pleasure; the more lasting, deep and wide the experience the more pleasurable it
is, so pleasure dictates the form of experience we demand, and pleasure is the
measure by which we measure the experience. Anything measurable is within the
limits of thought and is apt to create illusion. You can have marvellous
experiences and yet be completely deluded. You will inevitably see visions
according to your conditioning, you will see Christ or Buddha or whoever you
happen to believe in, and the greater a believer you are the stronger will be your
visions, the projections of your own demands and urges.
93