Because l have compared my mind with your mind which is brighter, has more
capacity, is more intelligent and alert. Do l know my pettiness without
comparison? When l am hungry, l do not compare that hunger with yesterday’s
hunger. Yesterday’s hunger is an idea, a memory.
If I am all the time measuring myself against you, struggling to be like you,
then l am denying what l am myself. Therefore l am creating an illusion. When I
have understood that comparison in any form leads only to greater illusion and
greater misery, just as when l analyse myself, add to my knowledge of myself bit
by bit, or identify myself with something outside myself, whether it be the State, a
saviour or an ideology - when l understand that all such processes lead only to
greater conformity and therefore greater conflict - when l see all this l put it
completely away. Then my mind is no longer seeking. It is very important to
understand this. Then my mind is no longer groping, searching, questioning. This
does not mean that my mind is satisfied with things as they are, but such a mind
has no illusion. Such a mind can then move in a totally different dimension. The
dimension in which we usually live, the life of every day which is pain, pleasure
and fear, has conditioned the mind, limited the nature of the mind, and when that
pain, pleasure and fear have gone (which does not mean that you no longer have
joy: joy is something entirely different from pleasure) - then the mind functions in
a different dimension in which there is no conflict, no sense of ’otherness’.
Verbally we can go only so far. what lies beyond cannot be put into words
because the word is not the thing. Up to now we can describe, explain, but no
words or explanations can open the door. What will open the door is daily,
awareness and attention - awareness of how we speak, what we say, how we
walk, what we think. It is like cleaning a room and keeping it in order. Keeping the
room in order is important in one sense but totally unimportant in another. There
must be order in the room but order will not open the door or the window. What
will open the door is not your volition or desire. You cannot possibly invite the
other. All that you can do is to keep the room in order, which is to be virtuous for
23