mechanically follow somebody who will assure us a comfortable spiritual life. It is
a most extraordinary thing that although most of us are opposed to political
tyranny and dictatorship, we inwardly accept the authority, the tyranny, of another
to twist our minds and our way of life. So fl we completely reject, not intellectually
but actually, all so-called spiritual authority, all ceremonies, rituals and dogmas, it
means that we stand alone and are already in conflict with society, we cease to
be respectable human beings. A respectable human being cannot possibly come
ear to that infinite, immeasurable, reality.
You have now started by denying something absolutely false - the traditional
approach - but if you deny it as a reaction you will have created another pattern in
which you will be trapped, if you tell yourself intellectually that this denial is a very
good idea but do nothing about it, you cannot go any further. If you deny it
however, because you understand the stupidity and immaturity of it, if you reject it
with tremendous intelligence, because you are free and not frightened, you will
create a great disturbance in yourself and around you but you will step out of the
trap of respectability. Then you will find that you are no longer seeking. That is
the first thing to learn - not to seek. When you seek you are really only window-
shopping.
The question of whether or not there is a God or truth or reality, or whatever
you like to call it, can never be answered by books, by priests, philosophers or
saviours. Nobody and nothing can answer the question but you yourself and that
is why you must know yourself. Immaturity lies only in total ignorance of self. To
understand yourself is the beginning of wisdom.
And what is yourself, the individual you? l think there is a difference between
the human being and the individual. The individual is a local entity, living in a
particular country, belonging to a particular culture, particular society, particular
religion. The human being is not a local entity. He is everywhere. If the individual
merely acts in a particular corner of the vast field of life, then his action is totally
5