fear - perceive total fear, not what you are afraid of? If you look merely at the
details of fear or try to deal with your fears one by one, you will never come to the
central issue Which is to learn to live with fear.
To live with a living thing such as fear requires a mind and heart that are
extraordinarily subtle, that have no conclusion and can therefore follow every
movement of fear. Then if you observe and live with it - and this doesn’t take a
whole day, it can take a minute or a second to know the whole nature of fear - if
you live with it so completely you inevitably ask, ‘Who is the entity who is living
with fear? Who is it who is observing fear, watching all the movements of the
various forms of fear as well as being aware of the central fact of fear? ls the
observer a dead entity, a static being, who has accumulated a lot of knowledge
and information about himself, and is it that dead thing who is observing and
living with the movement of fear? ls the observer the past or is he a living thing?’
What is your answer? Do not answer me, answer yourself. Are you, the observer,
a dead entity watching a living thing or are you a living thing watching a living
thing? Because in the observer the two states exist.
The observer is the censor who does not want fear, the observer is the totality
of all his experiences about fear. So the observer is separate from that thing he
calls fear; there is space between them, he is forever trying to overcome it or
escape from it and hence this constant battle between himself and fear - this
battle which is such a waste of energy.
As you watch, you learn that the observer is merely a bundle of ideas and
memories without any validity or substance, but that fear is an actuality and that
you are trying to understand a fact with an abstraction which, of course, you
cannot do. But,in fact, is the observer who says, ’l am afraid’, any different from
the thing observed which is fear? The observer is fear and when that is realized
there is no longer any dissipation of energy in the effort to get rid of fear, and the
time-space interval between the observer and the observed disappears. When
36