We are all afraid about something; there is no fear in abstraction, it is always
in relation to something. Do you know your own fears - fear of losing your job, of
not having enough food or money, or what your neighbours or the public think
about you, or not being a success, of losing your position in society, of being
despised or ridiculed - fear of pain and disease, of domination, of never knowing
what love is or of not being loved, of losing your wife or children, of death, of
living in a world that is like death, of utter boredom, of not living up to the image
others have built about you, of losing your faith - all these and innumerable other
fears - do you know your own particular fears? And what do you usually do about
them? You run away from them, don’t you, or invent ideas and images to cover
them? But to run away from fear is only to increase it.
One of the major causes of fear is that we do not want to face ourselves as we
are. So, as well as the fears themselves, we have to examine the network of
escapes we have developed to rid ourselves of them. lf the mind, in which is
included the brain, tries to overcome fear, to suppress it, discipline it, control it,
translate it into terms of something else, there is friction, there is conflict, and that
conflict is a waste of energy.
The first thing to ask ourselves then is what is fear and how does it arise”?
What do we mean by the word fear itself? l am asking myself what is fear not
what l am afraid of’
I lead a certain kind of life; I think in a certain pattern, l have certain beliefs
and dogmas and l don’t want those patterns of existence to be disturbed because
I have my roots in them. l don’t want them to be disturbed because the
disturbance produces a state of unknowing and l dislike that. If l am torn away
from everything l know and believe, l want to be reasonably certain of the state of
things to which l am going. So the brain cells have created a pattern and those
brain cells refuse to create another pattern which may be uncertain. The
movement from certainty to uncertainty is what l call fear.
31