such a thing because you have been told to do it and yet you are incapable of
doing it. You have your own particular inclinations, tendencies and pressures
which conflict with the system you think you ought to follow and therefore there is
a contradiction. So you will lead a double life between the ideology of the system
and the actuality of your daily existence. In trying to conform to the ideology, you
suppress yourself - whereas what is actually true is not the ideology but what you
are. If you try to study yourself according to another you will always remain a
secondhand human being.
A man who says, ‘l want to change, tell me how to’, seems very earnest, very
serious, but he is not. He wants an authority whom he hopes will bring about
order in himself. But can authority ever bring about inward order? Order imposed
from without must always breed disorder. You may see the truth of this
intellectually but can you actually apply it so that your mind no longer projects any
authority, the authority of a book, a teacher, a wife or husband, a parent, a friend
or of society? Because we have always functioned within the pattern of a formula,
the formula becomes the ideology and the authority, but the moment you really
see that the question, 'How can l change?’ sets up a new authority, you have
finished with authority for ever.
Let us state it again clearly. l see that l must change completely from the roots
of my being, l can no longer depend on any tradition because tradition has
brought about this colossal laziness, acceptance and obedience; l cannot
possibly look to another to help me to change, not to any teacher, any God, any
belief, any system, any outside pressure or influence. What then takes place?
First of all, can you reject all authority? If you can it means that you are no
longer afraid. Then what happens? when you reject something false which you
have been carrying about with you for generations, when you throw off a burden
of any kind, what takes place? You have more energy, haven’t you? You have
more capacity, more drive, greater intensity and vitality. If you do not feel this,
10