Now, why is the mind always demanding pleasure? Why is it that we do noble
and ignoble things with the undercurrent of pleasure? Why is it we sacrifice and
suffer on the thin thread of pleasure? What is pleasure and how does it come into
being? l wonder if any of you have asked yourself these questions and followed
the answers to the very end?
Pleasure comes into being through four stages - perception, sensation,
contact and desire. l see a beautiful motor car, say; then l get a sensation, a
reaction, from looking at it; then l touch it or imagine touching it, and then there is
the desire to own and show myself off in it. Or l see a lovely cloud, or a mountain
clear against the sky, or a leaf that has just come in springtime, or a deep valley
full of loveliness and splendour, or a glorious sunset, or a beautiful face,
intelligent, alive, not self-conscious and therefore no longer beautiful. l look at
these things with intense delight and as l observe them there is no observer but
only sheer beauty like love. For a moment l am absent with all my problems,
anxieties and miseries - there is only that marvellous thing. I can look at it with joy
and the next moment forget it, or else the mind steps in, and then the problem
begins; my mind thinks over what it has seen and thinks how beautiful it was, l tell
myself l should like to see it again many times. Thought begins to compare,
judge, and say l must have it again tomorrow’. The continuity of an experience
that has given delight for a second is sustained by thought.
It is the same with sexual desire or any other form of desire. There is nothing
wrong with desire. To react is perfectly normal. If you stick a pin in me l shall
react unless l am paralysed. But then thought steps in and chews over the delight
and turns it into pleasure. Thought wants to repeat the experience, and the more
you repeat, the more mechanical it becomes; the more you think about it, the
more strength thought gives to pleasure. So thought creates and sustains
pleasure through desire, and gives it continuity, and therefore the natural reaction
of desire to any beautiful thing is perverted by thought. Thought turns it into a
memory and memory is then nourished by thinking about it over and over again.
26