never know what love is; sentimentality and emotionalism have nothing
whatsoever to do with love. And so love is not to do with pleasure and desire.
Love is not the product of thought which is the past. Thought cannot possibly
cultivate love. Love is not hedged about and caught in jealousy, for jealousy is of
the past. Love is always active present. It is not ’l will love’ or’ I have loved’. If you
know love you will not follow anybody. Love does not obey. When you love there
is neither respect nor disrespect.
Don’t you know what it means really to love somebody to love without hate,
without jealousy, without anger, without wanting to interfere with what he is doing
or thinking, without condemning, without comparing - don’t you know what it
means? Where there is love is there comparison? When you love someone with
all your heart, with all your mind, with all your body, with your entire being, is
there comparison? When you totally abandon yourself to that love there is not the
other.
Does love have responsibility and duty, and will it use those words”? When you
do something out of duty is there any love in it? In duty there is no love. The
structure of duty in which the human being is caught is destroying him. So long as
you are compelled to do something because it is your duty you don’t love what
you are doing. When there is love there is no duty and no responsibility.
Most parents unfortunately think they are responsible for their children and
their sense of responsibility takes the form of telling them what they should do
and what they should not do, what they should become and what they should not
become. The parents want their children to have a secure position in society.
What they call responsibility is part of that respectability they worship; and it
seems to me that where there is respectability there is no order, they are
concerned only with becoming a perfect bourgeois. When they prepare their
children to fit into society they are perpetuating war, conflict and brutality. Do you
call that care and love?
67