made dull. How can there be a very alert, sensitive, clear mind if the organism
itself is dull and heavy? We may be sensitive about certain things that touch us
personally but to be completely sensitive to all the implications of life demand that
there be no separation between the organism and the psyche. It is a total
movement.
To understand anything you must live with it, you must observe it, you must
know all its content, ifs nature, its structure, ifs movement. Have you ever tried
living with yourself? If so, you will begin to see that yourself is not a static state, it
is a fresh living thing. And to live with a living thing your mind must also be alive.
And it cannot be alive if it is caught in opinions, judgements and values.
In order to observe the movement of your own mind and heart, of your whole
being, you must have a free mind, not a mind that agrees and disagrees, taking
sides in an argument, disputing over mere words, but rather following with an
intention to understand - a very difficult thing to do because most of us don’t know,
how to look at, or listen to, our own being any more than we know how to look at
the beauty of a river or listen to the breeze among the trees.
When we condemn or justify we cannot see clearly, nor can we when our
minds are endlessly chattering, then we do not observe what is we look only at
the projections we have made of ourselves. Each of us has an image of what we
think we are or what we should be, and that image, that picture, entirely prevents
us from seeing ourselves as we actually are.
It is one of the most difficult things in the world to look at anything simply.
Because our minds are very complex we have lost the quality of simplicity. I don’t
mean simplicity in clothes or food, wearing only a loin cloth or breaking a record
fasting or any of that immature nonsense the saints cultivate, but the simplicity
that can look directly at things without fear - that can look at ourselves as we
actually are without any distortion - to say when we lie we lie, not cover it up or
run away from it.
15