about anger, which is a part of violence, do we look at anger in terms of righteous
and unrighteous anger according to our own inclinations and environmental drive,
or do we see only anger? ls there righteous anger ever? Or is there only anger?
There is no good influence or bad influence, only influence, but when you are
influenced by something which doesn’t suit me I call it an evil influence.
The moment you protect your family, your country, a bit of coloured rag called
a flag, a belief, an idea, a dogma, the thing that you demand or that you hold, that
very protection indicates anger. So can you look at anger without any explanation
or justification, without saying,l must protect my goods’, or l was right to be
angry’, or ’How stupid of me to be angry'? Can you look at anger as if it were
something by itself? Can you look at it completely objectively, which means
neither defending it nor condemning it? Can you?
Can l look at you if l am antagonistic to you or if l am thinking what a
marvellous person you are? l can see you only when l look at you with a certain
care in which neither of these things is involved. Now, can l look at anger in the
same way, which means that l am vulnerable to the problem, l do not resist it, I
am watching this extraordinary phenomenon without any reaction to it?
It is very difficult to look at anger dispassionately because it is a part of me,
but that is what l am trying to do. Here l am, a violent human being, whether l am
black, brown, white or purple. l am not concerned with whether l have inherited
this violence or whether society has produced it in me; all l am concerned with is
whether it is at all possible to be free from it. To be free from violence means
everything to me. It is more important to me than sex, food, position, for this thing
is corrupting me. It is destroying me and destroying the world, and l want to
understand it, l want to be beyond it. I feel responsible for all this anger and
violence in the world. l feel responsible - it isn’t just a lot of words - and l say to
myself, l can do something only if l am beyond anger myself, beyond violence,
41