Chapter 16
WHAT WE HAVE been concerned with all through this book is the bringing
about in ourselves, and therefore in our lives, of a total revolution that has nothing
whatsoever to do with the structure of society as it is. Society as it is, is a
horrifying thing with its endless wars of aggression, whether that aggression be
defensive or offensive. What we need is something totally new - a revolution, a
mutation, in the psyche itself. The old brain cannot possibly solve the human
problem of relationship. The old brain is Asiatic, European, American or African,
so what we are asking ourselves is whether it is possible to bring about a
mutation in the brain cells themselves?
Let us ask ourselves again, now that we have come to understand ourselves
better, is it possible for a human being living an ordinary everyday life in this
brutal, violent, ruthless world - a world which is becoming more and more efficient
and therefore more and more ruthless - is it possible for him to bring about a
revolution not only in his outward relationships but in the whole field of his
thinking, feeling, acting and reacting.
Every day we see or read of appalling things happening in the world as the
result of violence in man. You may say, ’l can’t do anything about it’, or, How can
influence the world?’ l think you can tremendously influence the world if in
yourself you are not violent, if you lead actually every day a peaceful life - a life
which is not competitive, ambitious, envious - a life which does not create enmity.
small fires can become a blaze. We have reduced the world to its present state
of chaos by our self-centred activity, by our prejudices, our hatreds, our
nationalism, and when we say we cannot do anything about it, we are accepting
disorder in ourselves as inevitable. We have splintered the world into fragments
and if we ourselves are broken, fragmented, our relationship with the world will
also be broken. But if, when we act, we act totally, then our relationship with the
world undergoes a tremendous revolution.
99