idea of self-realization. What we are really seeking is a satisfaction in which there
is no dissatisfaction at all.
Most of us crave the satisfaction of having a position in society because we
are afraid of being nobody. Society is so constructed that a citizen who has a
position of respect is treated with great courtesy, whereas a man who has no
position is kicked around. Everyone in the world wants a position, whether in
society, in the family or to sit on the right hand of God, and this position must be
recognized by others, otherwise it is no position at all. We must always sit on the
platform. Inwardly we are whirlpools of misery and mischief and therefore to be
regarded outwardly as a great figure is very gratifying. This craving for position,
for prestige, for power, to be recognized by society as being outstanding in some
way, is a wish to dominate others, and this wish to dominate is a form of
aggression. The saint who seeks a position in regard to his saintliness is as
aggressive as the chicken pecking in the farmyard. And what is the cause of this
aggressiveness? It is fear, isn’t it?
Fear is one of the greatest problems in life. H mind that is caught in fear lives
in confusion, in conflict, and therefore must be violent, distorted and aggressive. It
dare not move away from its own patterns of thinking, and this breeds hypocrisy.
Until we are free from fear, climb the highest mountain, invent every kind of God,
we will always remain in darkness.
Living in such a corrupt, stupid society as we do, with the competitive
education we receive which engenders fear, we are all burdened with fears of
some kind, and fear is a dreadful thing which warps, twists and dulls our days.
There is physical fear but that is a response we have inherited from the
animals. It is psychological fears we are concerned with here, for when we
understand the deep-rooted psychological fears we will be able to meet the
animal fears, whereas to be concerned with the animal fears first will never help
us to understand the psychological fears.
30