opinions. Every religion has its dogma, its formula, its own scaffold to reach the
gods, and when inquiring into the beginning of thought we are questioning the
importance of this whole edifice of ideas. We have separated ideas from action
because ideas are always of the past and action is always the present - that is,
living is always the present. We are afraid of living and therefore the past, as
ideas, has become so important to us.
It is really extraordinarily interesting to watch the operation of one’s own
thinking, just to observe how one thinks, where that reaction we call thinking,
springs from. Obviously from memory. ls there a beginning to thought at all? If
there is, can we find out its beginning - that is, the beginning of memory, because
If we had no memory we would have no thought?
Ne have seen how thought sustains and gives continuity to a pleasure that we
had yesterday and how thought also sustains the reverse of pleasure which is
fear and pain, so the experiencer, who is the thinker, is the pleasure and the pain
and also the entity who gives nourishment to the pleasure and pain. The thinker
separates pleasure from pain. He doesn’t see that in the very demand for
pleasure he is inviting pain and fear. Thought in human relation. ships is always
demanding pleasure which it covers by different words like loyalty, helping,
giving, sustaining, serving. l wonder why we want to serve? The petrol station
offers good service. What do those words mean, to help, to give, to serve? What
s it all about? Does a flower full of beauty, light and loveliness say,’l am giving,
helping, serving? It is! And because it is not trying to do anything it covers the
earth.
Thought is so cunning, so clever, that it distorts everything for its own
convenience. Thought in its demand for pleasure brings its own bondage.
Thought is the breeder of duality in all our relationships. there is violence in us
which gives us pleasure but there is also the desire for peace, the desire to be
kind and gentle. This is what is going on all the time in all our lives. Thought not
84