At the actual moment as l am sitting here l am not afraid; l am not afraid in the
present, nothing is happening to me, nobody is threatening me or taking anything
away from me. But beyond the actual moment there is a deeper layer in the mind
which is consciously or unconsciously thinking of what might happen in the future
or worrying that something from the past may overtake me. So l am afraid of the
past and of the future. l have divided time into the past and the future. Thought
steps in, says, Be careful it does not happen again’, or ’Be prepared for the
future. The future may be dangerous for you. You have got something now but
you may lose it. You may die tomorrow, your wife may run away, you may lose
your job. You may never become famous. You may be lonely. You want to be
quite sure of tomorrow.’
Now take your own particular form of fear. Look at it. Watch your reactions to
it. Can you look at if without any movement of escape, justification, condemnation
or suppression? Can you look at that fear without the word which causes the
fear? Can you look at death, for instance, without the word which arouses the
fear of death? The word itself brings a tremor, doesn’t it, as the word love has its
own tremor, its own image? Now is the image you have in your mind about death,
the memory of so many deaths you have seen and the associating of yourself
with those incidents - is it that image which is creating fear? Or are you actually
afraid of coming to an end, not of the image creating the end? ls the word death
causing you fear or the actual ending’? If it is the word or the memory which is
causing you fear then it is not fear at all.
You were ill two years ago, let us say, and the memory of that pain, that
illness, remains, and the memory now functioning says, Be careful, don’t get ill,
again’. So the memory with its associations is creating fear, and that is not fear at
all because actually at the moment you have very good health. Thought, which is
always old, because thought is the response of memory and memories are
always old - thought creates, in time, the feeling that you are afraid which is not
an actual fact. The actual fact is that you are well. But the experience, which has
32