that is all that matters - your life, yourself, your pettiness, your shallowness, your
brutality, your violence, your greed, your ambition, your daily agony and endless
sorrow - that is what you have to understand and nobody on earth or in heaven is
going to save you from it but yourself.
Seeing everything that goes on in your daily life, your daily activities - when
you pick up a pen, when you talk, when you go out for a drive or when you are
walking alone in the woods - can you with one breath, with one look, know
yourself very simply as you are? When you know yourself as you are, then you
understand the whole structure of man’s endeavour, his deceptions, his
hypocrisies, his search. T o do this you must be tremendously honest with
yourself throughout your being. When you act according to your principles you
are being dishonest because when you act according to what you think you ought
to be you are not what you are. it is a brutal thing to have ideals. If you have any
deals, beliefs or principles you cannot possibly look at yourself directly. So can
you be completely negative, completely quiet, neither thinking nor afraid, and yet
be extraordinarily, passionately alive?
That state of mind which is no longer capable of striving is the true religious
mind, and in that state of mind you may come upon this thing called truth or
reality or bliss or God or beauty or love. This thing cannot be invited. please
understand that very simple fact. It cannot be invited, it cannot be sought after,
because the mind is too silly, too small, your emotions are too shoddy, your way
of life too confused for that enormity, that immense something, to be invited into
your little house, your little corner of living which has been trampled and spat
upon. You cannot invite it. To invite it you must know it and you cannot know it. It
doesn’t matter who says it, the moment he says,l know’, he does not know. The
moment you say you have found it you have not found it. If you say you have
experienced it, you have never experienced it. They are all ways of exploiting
another man - your friend or your enemy.
102