unrelated to the whole. So one has to bear in mind that we are talking of the
whole not the part, because in the greater the lesser is, but in the lesser the
greater is not. The individual is the little conditioned, miserable, frustrated entity,
satisfied with his little gods and his little traditions, whereas a human being is
concerned with the total welfare, the total misery and total confusion of the world.
We human beings are what we have been for millions of years - -colossally
greedy, envious, aggressive, jealous, anxious and despairing, with occasional
flashes of joy and affection. We are a strange mixture of hate, fear and
gentleness; we are both violence and peace. There has been outward progress
from the bullock cart to the jet plane but psychologically the individual has not
changed at all, and the structure of society throughout the world has been
created by individuals. The outward social structure is the result of the inward
psychological structure of our human relationships, for the individual is the result
of the total experience, knowledge and conduct of man. Each one of us is the
storehouse of all the past. The individual is the human who is all mankind. The
whole history of man is written in ourselves.
Do observe what is actually taking place within yourself and outside yourself in
the competitive culture in which you live with its desire for power, position,
prestige, name, success and all the rest of it - observe the achievements of which
you are so proud, this whole field you call living in which there is conflict in every
form of relationship, breeding hatred, antagonism, brutality and endless wars.
This field, this life, is all we know, and being unable to understand the enormous
battle of existence we are naturally afraid of it and find escape from it in all sorts
of subtle ways. And we are frightened also of the unknown - frightened of death,
frightened of what lies beyond tomorrow. So we are afraid of the known and
afraid of the unknown. That is our daily life and in that there is no hope, and
therefore every form of philosophy, every form of theo- logical concept, is merely
an escape from the actual reality of what is.
6