psychologically, rich with the things of society because they are still seeking
position and prestige; they belong to this order or that order, this religion or that
religion; they still live in the divisions of a culture, a tradition. That is not poverty.
poverty is to be completely free of society, though one may have a few more
clothes, a few more meals - good God, who cares? But unfortunately in most
people there is this urge for exhibitionism.
Poverty becomes a marvellously beautiful thing when the mind is free of
society. One must become poor inwardly for then there is no seeking, no asking,
no desire, no - nothing! It is only this inward poverty that can see the truth of a life
in Which there is no conflict at all. Such a life is a benediction not to be found in
any church or any temple.
How is it possible then to free ourselves from the psychological structure of
society, which is to free ourselves from the essence of conflict? It is not difficult to
trim and lop off certain branches of conflict, but we are asking ourselves whether
it is possible to live in complete inward and therefore outward tranquillity? Which
does not mean that we shall vegetate or stagnate. On the contrary, we shall
become dynamic, vital, full of energy.
To understand and to be free of any problem we need a great deal of
passionate and sustained energy, not only physical and intellectual energy but an
energy that is not dependent on any motive, any psychological stimulus or drug. If
we are dependent on any stimulus that very stimulus makes the mind dull and
insensitive. By taking some form of drug we may find enough energy temporarily
to see things very clearly but we revert to our former state and therefore become
dependent on that drug more and more. So all stimulation, whether of the church
or of alcohol or of drugs or of the written or spoken word, will inevitably bring
about dependence, and that dependence prevents us from seeing clearly for
ourselves and therefore from having vital energy.
48