suppression or sublimation? Can he bring about such order within himself that it
s a living quality not held within the framework of ideas - an inward tranquillity
which knows no disturbance at any moment - not in some fantastic mythical
abstract world but in the daily life of the home and the office?
  I think we should go into this question very carefully because there is not one
spot in our consciousness untouched by conflict. In all our relationships, whether
with the most intimate person or with a  neighbour or with society, this conflict
exists - conflict being contradiction, a state of division, separation, a duality.
Observing ourselves and our relationships to society we see that at all levels of
our being there is conflict - minor or major conflict which brings about very
superficial responses or devastating results.
Wan has accepted conflict as an innate part of daily existence because he has
accepted competition, jealousy, greed, acquisitiveness and aggression as a
natural way of life. When we accept such a way of life we accept the structure of
society as it is and live within the pattern of respectability. And that is what most
of us are caught in because most of us want to be terribly respectable. When we
examine our own minds and hearts, the way we think, the way we feel and how,
we act in our daily lives, we observe that as long as we conform to the pattern of
society, life must be a battlefield. If we do not accept it - and no religious person
can possibly accept such a society - then we will be completely free from the
psychological structure of society.
Most of us are rich with the things of society. What society has created in us
and what we have created in ourselves, are greed, envy, anger, hate, jealousy,
anxiety - and with all these we are very rich. The various religions throughout the
world have preached poverty. The monk assumes a robe, changes his name,
shaves his head, enters a cell and takes a vow of poverty and chastity; in the
East he has one loin cloth, one robe, one meal a day - and we all respect such
poverty. But those men who have assumed the robe of poverty are still inwardly
47