Chapter 13
LET US NOW go into the question of what is thinking, the significance of that
thought which must be exercised with care, logic and sanity (for our daily work)
and that which has no significance at all. Unless we know the two kinds, we
cannot possibly understand something much deeper which thought cannot touch.
So let us try to understand this whole complex structure of what is thinking, what
is memory, how thought originates, how thought conditions all our actions, and in
understanding all this we shall perhaps come across something which thought
has never discovered, which thought cannot open the door to.
Why has thought become so important in all our lives - thought being ideas,
being the response to the accumulated memories in the brain cells? Perhaps
many of you have not even asked such a question before, or if you have you may
have said, 'It’s of very little importance - what is important is emotion.’ But I don’t
see how you can separate the two. If thought doesn’t give continuity to feeling,
feeling dies very quickly. So why in our daily lives, in our grinding, boring,
frightened lives, has thought taken on such inordinate importance? Ask yourself
as l am asking myself - why is one a slave to thought - cunning, clever, thought
which can organize, which can start things, which has invented so much, bred so
many wars, created so much fear, so much anxiety, which is forever making
images and chasing its own tail - thought which has enjoyed the pleasure of
yesterday and given that pleasure continuity in the present and also in the future -
thought which is always active, chattering, moving, constructing, taking away,
adding, supposing?
Ideas have become far more important to us than action - ideas so cleverly
expressed in books by the intellectuals in every field. T he more cunning, the more
subtle, those ideas are the more we worship them and the books that contain
them. We are those books, we are those ideas, so heavily conditioned are we by
them. We are forever discussing ideas and ideals and dialectically offering
83