you. When you see it with your heart, not with your mind, when you see it from
the very bottom of your heart, then you have the key that will end sorrow. Sorrow
and love cannot go together, but in the Christian world they have idealized
suffering, put it on a cross and worshipped it, implying that you can never escape
from suffering except through that one particular door, and this is the whole
structure of an exploiting religious society.
So when you ask what love is, you may be too frightened to see the answer. It
may mean complete upheaval, it may break up the family, you may discover that
you do not love your wife or husband or children - do you? - you may have to
shatter the house you have built, you may never go back to the temple.
But if you still want to find out, you will see that fear is not love, dependence is
not love, jealousy is not love, possessiveness and domination are not love,
responsibility and duty are not love, self-pity is not love, the agony of not being
loved is not love, love is not the opposite of hate any more than humility is the
opposite of vanity. So if you can eliminate all these, not by forcing them but by
washing them away as the rain washes the dust of many days from a leaf, then
perhaps you will come upon this strange flower which man always hungers after.
If you have not got love - not just in little drops but in abundance - if you are
not filled with it - the world will go to disaster. You know intellectually that the unity
of mankind is essential and that love is the only way, but who is going to teach
you how to love? Will any authority, any method, any system, tell you how to
love? If anyone tells you, it is not love. Can you say, ’l will practise love. I will sit
down day after day and think about it. l will practise being kind and gentle and
force myself to pay attention to others'? Do you mean to say that you can
discipline yourself to love, exercise the will to love”? When you exercise discipline
and will to love, love goes out of the window. By practising some method or
system of loving you may become extraordinarily clever or more kindly or get into
a state of non-violence, but that has nothing whatsoever to do with love.
69