Space and silence are necessary to go beyond the limitations of
consciousness, but how can a mind which is so endlessly active in its self-interest
be quiet? One can discipline it, control it, shape if, but such torture does not make
the mind quiet, it merely makes it dull. Obviously the mere pursuit of the ideal of
having a quiet mind is valueless because the more you force it the more narrow
and stagnant it becomes. Control in any form, like suppression, produces only
conflict. So control and outward discipline are not the way, nor has an
undisciplined life any value.
Most of our lives are outwardly disciplined by the demands of society, by the
family, by our own suffering, by our own experience, by conforming to certain
ideological or factual patterns - and that form of discipline is the most deadening
thing. Discipline must be without control, without suppression, without any form of
fear. How is this discipline to come about? It is not discipline first and then
freedom; freedom is at the very beginning, not at the end. To understand this
freedom, which is the freedom from the conformity of discipline, is discipline itself.
The very act of learning is discipline (after all the root meaning of the word
discipline is to learn), the very act of learning becomes clarity. To  understand the
whole nature and structure of control, suppression and indulgence demands
attention. You don’t have to impose discipline in order to study it, but the very act
of studying brings about its own discipline in which there is no suppression.
In order to deny authority (we are talking of psychological authority, not the
law) - to deny the authority of all religious organizations, traditions and
experience, one has to see why one normally obeys - actually study it. And to
study it there must be freedom from condemnation, justification, opinion or
acceptance. Now we cannot accept authority and yet study it - that is impossible.
To study the whole psychological structure of authority within ourselves there
must be freedom. And when we are studying we are denying the whole structure,
and when we do deny, that very denial is the light of the mind that is free from
authority. Negation of everything that has been considered worthwhile, such as
90