sacred books are full of them, yet we are still violent - so why not deal with
violence itself and forget the word altogether?
If you want to understand the actual you must give your whole attention, all
your energy, to it. That attention and energy are distracted when you create a
fictitious, ideal world. So can you completely banish the ideal?  The man who is
really serious, with the urge to find out what truth is, what love is, has no concept
at all. He lives only in what is.
To investigate the fact of your own anger you must pass no judgement on it;
for the moment you conceive of its opposite you condemn it and therefore you
cannot see it as it is. When you say you dislike or hate someone that is a fact,
although it sounds terrible. If you look at it, go into it completely, it ceases, but if
you say, ’l must not hate; l must have love in my heart’, then you are living in a
hypocritical world with double standards. To live completely, fully, in the moment
is to live with what is, the actual, without any sense of condemnation or
justification - then you understand it so totally that you are finished with it. When
you see clearly the problem is solved.
But can you see the face of violence clearly - the face of violence not only
outside you but inside you, which means that you are totally free from violence
because you have not admitted ideology through which to get rid of it? This
requires very deep meditation not just a verbal agreement or disagreement.
You have now read a series of statements but have you really understood?
Your conditioned mind, your way of life, the whole structure of the society in
which you live, prevent you from looking at a fact and being entirely free from it
immediately. You say, ’l will think about it, I will consider whether it is possible to
be free from violence or not. I will try to be free.’That is one of the most dreadful
statements you can make, ’l will try’. There is no trying, no doing your best. Either
you do it or you don’t do it. You are admitting time while the house is burning. The
house is burning as a result of the violence throughout the world and in yourself
44