Chapter 1 0
THE DEMAND TO be safe in relationship inevitably breeds sorrow and fear.
This seeking for security is inviting insecurity. Have you ever found security in any
of your relationships? Have you? Most of us want the security of loving and being
loved, but is there love when each one of us is seeking his own security, his own
particular path? We are not loved because we don’t know how to love.
What is love? The word is so loaded and corrupted that l hardly like to use it.
Everybody talks of love - every magazine and newspaper and every missionary
talks everlastingly of love. l love my country, l love my king, l love some book, I
love that mountain, l love pleasure, l love my wife, l love God. ls love an idea”? If it
is, it can be cultivated, nourished, cherished, pushed around, twisted in any way
you like. When you say you love God what does it mean? It means that you love
a projection of your own imagination, a projection of yourself clothed in certain
forms of respectability according to what you think is noble and holy, so to say,’l
love God’, is absolute nonsense. When you worship God you are worshipping
yourself - and that is not love.
Because we cannot solve this human thing called love we run away into
abstractions. Love may be the ultimate solution to all man’s difficulties, problems
and travails, so how are we going to find out what love is? By merely defining it?
The church has defined it one way, society another and there are all sorts of
deviations and perversions. Adoring someone, sleeping with someone, the
emotional exchange, the companionship - is that what we mean by love? That
has been the norm, the pattern, and it has become so tremendously personal,
sensuous, and limited that religions have declared that love is something much
more than this. In what they call human love they see there is pleasure,
competition, jealousy, the desire to possess, to hold, to control and to interfere
with another's thinking, and knowing the complexity of all this they say there must
be another kind of love, divine beautiful untouched, uncorrupted.
64