confusion. perhaps you may be able to discover what love is through what it is
not.’
The government says,'Go and kill for the love of your country’. ls that love?
Religion says,'Give up sex for the love of God’. ls that love? ls love desire? Don’t
say no. For most of us it is - desire with pleasure, the pleasure that is derived
through the senses, through sexual attachment and fulfilment. l am not against
sex, but see what is involved in it. What sex gives you momentarily is the total
abandonment of yourself, then you are back again with your turmoil, so you want
a repetition over and over again of that state in which there is no worry, no
problem, no self. You say you love your wife. In that love is involved sexual
pleasure, the pleasure of having someone in the house to look after your children,
to cook. You depend on her; she has given you her body, her emotions, her
encouragement, a certain feeling of security and well-being. Then she turns away
from you; she gets bored or goes off with someone else, and your whole
emotional balance is destroyed, and this disturbance, which you don’t like, is
called jealousy. There is pain in it, anxiety, hate and violence. So what you are
really saying is, 'As long as you belong to me l love you but the moment you don’t
begin to hate you. As long as l can rely on you to satisfy my demands, sexual
and otherwise, l love you, but the moment you cease to supply what l want l don’t
like you.’ So there is antagonism between you, there is separation, and when you
feel separate from another there is no love. But if you can live with your wife
without thought creating all these contradictory states, these endless quarrels in
yourself, then perhaps - perhaps - you will know what love is. Then you are
completely free and so is she, whereas if you depend on her for all your pleasure
you are a slave to her. So when one loves there must be freedom, not only from
the other person but from oneself.
This belonging to another, being psychologically nourished by another,
depending on another - in all this there must always be anxiety, fear, jealousy,
guilt, and so long as there is fear there is no love; a mind ridden with sorrow will
66