how terribly narrowly conditioned we are. And what shall we do’? Accept that
disturbance and live with it as most of us do”? Get used to it as one gets used to
living with a backache? Put up with it?
There is a tendency in all of us to put up with things, to get used to them, to
blame them on circumstances. 'Ah, if things were right l would be different’, we
say, or,Give me the opportunity and l will fulfil myself, or, ‘l am crushed by the
injustice of it all’, always blaming our disturbances on others or on our
environment or on the economic situation.
If one gets used to disturbance it means that one’s mind has become dull, just
as one can get so used to beauty around one that one no longer notices it. One
gets indifferent, hard and callous, and one’s mind becomes duller and duller. If we
do not get used to it we try to escape from it by taking some kind of drug, joining
a political group, shouting, writing, going to a football match or to a temple or
church or finding some other form of amusement.
Why is it that we escape from actual facts? We are afraid of death - l am just
taking that as an example - and we invent all kinds of theories, hopes, beliefs, to
disguise the fact of death, but the fact is still there. To understand a fact we must
look at it, not run away from it. Most of us are afraid of living as well as of dying.
We are afraid for our family, afraid of public opinion, of losing our job, our
security, and hundreds of other things. The simple fact is that we are afraid, not
that we are afraid of this or that. Now why cannot we face that fact?
You can face a fact only in the present and if you never allow it to be present
because you are always escaping from it, you can never face if, and because we
have cultivated a hole network of escapes we are caught in the habit of escape.
Now, if you are at all sensitive, at all serious, you will not only be aware of your
conditioning but you will also be aware of the dangers it results in, what brutality
and hatred it leads to. Why, then, if you see the danger of your conditioning, don’t
18