Of course, memory has a place at a certain level. In everyday life we could not
function at all without it. In its own field it must be efficient but there is a state of
mind where it has very little place. A mind which is not crippled by memory has
real freedom.
Have you ever noticed that when you respond to something totally, with all
your heart, there is very little memory? It is only when you do not respond to a
challenge with your whole being that there is a conflict, a struggle, and this brings
confusion and pleasure or pain. And the struggle breeds memory. That memory
is added to all the time by other memories and it is those memories which
respond. Anything that is the result of memory is old and therefore never free.
There is no such thing as freedom of thought. It is sheer nonsense.
Thought is never new, for thought is the response of memory, experience,
knowledge. Thought, because it is old, makes this thing which you have looked at
with delight and felt tremendously for the moment, old. From the old you derive
pleasure, never from the new. T here is no time in the new.
so if you can look at all things without allowing pleasure to creep in - at a face,
a bird, the colour of a sari, the beauty of a sheet of water shimmering in the sun,
or anything that gives delight - if you can look at it without wanting the experience
to be repeated, then there will be no pain, no fear, and therefore tremendous joy.
It is the struggle to repeat and perpetuate pleasure which turns it into pain.
Watch it in yourself. The very demand for the repetition of pleasure brings about
pain, because it is not the same, as it was yesterday. You struggle to achieve the
same delight, not only to your aesthetic sense but the same inward quality of the
mind, and you are hurt and disappointed because it is denied to you.
Have you observed what happens to you when you are denied a little
pleasure? When you don’t get what you want you become anxious, envious,
hateful. Have you noticed when you have been denied the pleasure of drinking or
27