We all unfortunately depend psychologically on something. Why do we
depend? Why is there this urge to depend? We are taking this journey together;
you are not waiting for me to tell you the causes of your dependence. If we
enquire together we will both discover and therefore that discovery will be your
own, and hence, being yours, it will give you vitality.
 I discover for myself that l depend on something - an audience, say, which will
stimulate me. I derive from that audience, from addressing a large group of
people, a kind of energy. And therefore l depend on that audience, on those
people, whether they agree or disagree. The more they disagree the more vitality
they give me. If they agree if becomes a very shallow, empty thing. So l discover
that l need an audience because it is a very stimulating thing to address people.
Now why? Why do l depend”? Because in myself l am shallow, in myself l have
othing, in myself l have no source which is always full and rich, vital, moving;
living. So l depend. l have discovered the cause.
But will the discovery of the cause free me from being dependent? The
discovery of the cause is merely intellectual, so obviously it does not free the
mind from its dependency. T he mere intellectual acceptance of an idea, or the
emotional acquiescence in an ideology, cannot free the mind from being
dependent on something which will give it stimulation. Vhat frees the mind from
dependence is seeing the whole structure and nature of stimulation and
dependence and how that dependence makes the mind stupid, dull and inactive!
seeing the totality of it alone frees the mind.
So l must enquire into what it means to see ftotally. Hs long as l am looking al
life from a particular point of view or from a particular experience l have
cherished, or from some particular knowledge l have gathered, which is my
background, which is the ’me’, I cannot totally. I have discovered intellectually,
verbally, through analysis, the cause of my dependence, but whatever thought
4O