Throughout the world, so-called holy men have maintained that to look at a
woman is something totally wrong. they say you cannot come near to God if you
indulge in sex, therefore they push it aside although they are eaten up with it. But
by denying sexuality they put out their eyes and cut out their tongues for they
deny the whole beauty of the earth. They have starved their hearts and minds;
they are dehydrated human beings, they have banished beauty because beauty
is associated With Woman.
Can love be divided into the sacred and the profane, the human and the
divine, or is there only love? ls love of the one and not of the many? If l say,’l
love you’, does that exclude the love of the other? ls love personal or impersonal?
Moral or immoral’? Family or non-family? If you love mankind can you love the
particular? ls love sentiment? ls love emotion? ls love pleasure and desire? All
these questions indicate, don’t they, that we have ideas about love, ideas about
what it should or should not be, a pattern or a code developed by the culture in
Which We live.
so to go into the question of what love is we must first free it from the
encrustation of centuries, put away all ideals and ideologies of what it should or
should not be. T o divide anything into what should be and what is, is the most
deceptive way of dealing with life.
Now how am l going to find out what this flame is which we call love - not how
to express it to another but what it means in itself? l will first reject what the
church, what society, what my parents and friends, what every person and every
book has said about it because l want to find out for myself what it is. Here is an
enormous problem that involves the whole of mankind, there have been a
thousand ways of defining it and l myself am caught in some pattern or other
according to what l like or enjoy at the moment - so shouldn’t l, in order to
understand it, first free myself from my own inclinations and prejudices? l am
confused, torn by my own desires, so l say to myself, ‘’First clear up your own
65