and man, between one community and another or one country and another or
one ideology and another - if there is any inward friction or any outward conflict in
any form, however subtle it may be - there is a waste of energy.
As long as there is a time interval between the observer and the observed it
creates friction and therefore there is a waste of energy. That energy is gathered
to its highest point when the observer is the observed, in which there is no time
interval at all. Then there will be energy without motive and it will find its own
channel of action because then the l’ does not exist.
Ne need a tremendous amount of energy to understand the confusion in
which we live, and the feeling, l must understand’, brings about the vitality to find
out. But finding out, searching, implies time, and, as we have seen, gradually to
uncondition the mind is not the way. Time is not the way. Whether we are old or
young it is now that the whole process of life can be brought into a different
dimension. Seeking the opposite of what we are is not the way either, nor is the
artificial discipline imposed by a system, a teacher, a philosopher or priest - all
that is so very childish. When we realize this, we ask ourselves is it possible to
break through this heavy conditioning of centuries immediately and not enter into
another conditioning - to be free, so that the mind can be altogether new,
sensitive, alive, aware, intense, capable”? That is our problem. There is no other
problem because when the mind is made new it can tackle any problem. That is
the only question we have to ask ourselves.
But we do not ask. We want to be told. One of the most curious things in the
structure of our psyche is that we all want to be told because we are the result of
the propaganda of ten thousand years. We want to have our thinking confirmed
and corroborated by another, whereas to ask a question is to ask it of yourself.
What l say has very little value. You will forget it the moment you shut this book,
or you will remember and repeat certain phrases, or you will compare what you
have read here with some other book - but you will not face your own life. And
101