an immense question. how can you look at it without the fragmentation which the
ind has cultivated?
There is only total fear, but how can the mind which thinks in fragments
observe this total picture? Can it? We have lived a life of fragmentation, and can
look at that total fear only through the fragmentary process of thought. The whole
process of the machinery of thinking is to break up everything into fragments. I
love you and l hate you, you are my enemy, you are my friend, my peculiar
idiosyncrasies and inclinations, my job, my position, my prestige, my wife, my
child, my country and your country, my God and your God - all that is the
fragmentation of thought. And this thought looks at the total state of fear, or tries
to look at it, and reduces it to fragments. Therefore we see that the mind can look
at this total fear only when there is no movement of thought.
Can you watch fear without any conclusion, without any interference of the
knowledge you have accumulated about it? If you cannot, then what you are
watching is the past, not fear, if you can, then you are watching fear for the first
time without the interference of the past.
You can watch only when the mind is very quiet, just as you can listen to what
someone is saying only when your mind is not chattering with itself, carrying on a
dialogue with itself about its own problems and anxieties. Can you in the same
way look at your fear without frying to resolve it, without bringing in its opposite,
courage - actually look at it and not fry to escape from it? When you say, l must
control it, l must get rid of it, l must understand it’, you are trying to escape from it.
You can observe a cloud or a tree or the movement of a river with a fairly quiet
mind because they are not very important to you, but to watch yourself is far more
difficult because there the demands are so practical, the reactions so quick. So
when you are directly in contact with fear or despair, loneliness or jealousy, or
any other ugly state of mind, can you look at it so completely that your mind is
quiet enough to see it? Can the mind perceive fear and not the different forms of
35