an observer? There is an observer only when love is desire and pleasure. When
desire and pleasure are not associated with love, then love is intense. It is, like
beauty, something totally new every day. As l have said, it has no today and no
tomorrow.
It is only when we see without any preconception, any image, that we are able
to be in direct contact with anything in life. All our relationships are really
imaginary - that is, based on an image formed by thought. If l have an image
about you and you have an image about me, naturally we don’t see each other at
all as we actually are. What we see is the images we have formed about each
other which prevent us from being in contact, and that is why our relationships go
wrong.
When l say l know you, l mean l knew you yesterday. l do not know you
actually now. All l know is my image of you. That image is put together by what
you have said in praise of me or to insult me, what you have done to me - it is put
together by all the memories l have of you - and your image of me is put together
in the same way, and it is those images which have relationship and which
prevent us from really communing with each other.
Two people who have lived together for a long time have an image of each
other which prevents them from really being in relationship. If we understand
relationship we can co-operate but co-operation cannot possibly exist through
mages, through symbols, through ideological conceptions. Only when we
understand the true relationship between each other is there a possibility of love,
and love is denied when we have images. Therefore it is important to understand,
not intellectually but actually in your daily life, how you have built images about
your wife, your husband, your neighbour, your child, your country, your leaders,
your politicians, your gods - you have nothing but images.
These images create the space between you and what you observe and in
that space there is conflict, so what we are going to find out now together is
75