whether it is possible to be free of the space we create, not only outside
ourselves but in ourselves, the space which divides people in all their
relationships.
Now the very attention you give to a problem is the energy that solves that
problem. When you give your complete attention - l mean with everything in you -
there is no observer at all. There is only the state of attention which is total
energy, and that total energy is the highest form of intelligence. Naturally that
state of mind must be completely silent and that silence, that stillness, comes
when there is total attention, not disciplined stillness. That total silence in which
there is neither the observer nor the thing observed is the highest form of a
religious mind. But what takes place in that state cannot be put into words
because what is said in words is not the fact. To find out for yourself you have to
go through it.
Every problem is related to every other problem so that if you can solve one
problem completely - it does not matter what if is - you will see that you are able
to meet all other problems easily and resolve them. We are talking, of course, of
psychological problems. We have already seen that a problem exists only in time,
that is when we meet the issue incompletely. So not only must we be aware of
the nature and structure of the problem and see it completely, but meet it as it
arises and resolve it immediately so that it does not take root in the mind. If one
allows a problem to endure for a month or a day, or even for a few minutes, it
distorts the mind. So is it possible to meet a problem immediately without any
distortion and be immediately, completely, free of it and not allow a memory, a
scratch on the mind, to remain’? These memories are the images we carry about
with us and it is these images which meet this extraordinary thing called life and
therefore there is a contradiction and hence conflict. Life is very real - life is not
an abstraction - and when you meet it with images there are problems.
76