be despair, ugliness, brutality, fear, anxiety, loneliness - and live with it
completely, then there is no contradiction and hence no conflict.
But all the time we are comparing ourselves - with those who are richer or
more brilliant, more intellectual, more affectionate, more famous, more this and
ore that. The ’more’ plays an extraordinarily important part in our lives, this
measuring ourselves all the time against something or someone is one of the
primary causes of conflict.
Now why is there any comparison at all? Why do you compare yourself with
another? This comparison has been taught from childhood. In every school A is
compared with B, and A destroys himself in order to be like B. When you do not
compare at all, when there is no ideal, no opposite, no factor of duality, when you
no longer struggle to be different from what you are - what has happened to your
mind? Your mind has ceased to create the opposite and has become highly
intelligent, highly sensitive, capable of immense passion, because effort is a
dissipation of passion - passion which is vital energy - and you cannot do
anything without passion.
If you do not compare yourself with another you will be what you are. Through
comparison you hope to evolve, to grow, to become more intelligent, more
beautiful. But will you? The fact is what you are, and by comparing you are
fragmenting the fact which is a waste of energy. To see what you actually are
without any comparison gives you tremendous energy to look. When you can
look at yourself without comparison you are beyond comparison, which does not
mean that the mind is stagnant with contentment. So we see in essence how the
mind wastes energy which is so necessary to understand the totality of life.
don’t want to know with whom l am in conflict, l don’t want to know the
peripheral conflicts of my being. What I want to know is why conflict should exist
at all. When l put that question to myself l see a fundamental issue which has
nothing to do with peripheral conflicts and their solutions. l am concerned with the
51