understand because we are going into something which requires very careful
investigation.
It is only a mind that looks at a tree or the stars or the sparkling waters of a
river with complete self-abandonment that knows what beauty is, and when we
are actually seeing we are in a state of love. We generally know beauty through
comparison or through what man has put together, which means that we attribute
beauty to some object. l see what l consider to be a beautiful building and that
beauty l appreciate because of my knowledge of architecture and by comparing it
with other buildings l have seen. But now l am asking myself, ’ls there a beauty
without object?’ When there is an observer who is the censor, the experiencer,
the thinker, there is no beauty because beauty is something external, something
the observer looks at and judges, but when there is no observer - and this
demands a great deal of meditation, of enquiry then there is beauty without the
object.
Beauty lies in the total abandonment of the observer and the observed and
there can be self-abandonment only when there is total austerity - not the
austerity of the priest with its harshness, its sanctions, rules and obedience - not
austerity in clothes, ideas, food and behaviour - but the austerity of being totally
simple which is complete humility. Then there is no achieving, no ladder to climb;
there is only the first step and the first step is the everlasting step.
Say you are walking by yourself or with somebody and you have stopped
talking. You are surrounded by nature and there is no dog barking, no noise of a
car passing or even the flutter of a bird. You are completely silent and nature
around you is also wholly silent. In that state of silence both in the observer and
the observed - when the observer is not translating what he observes into thought
in that silence there is a different quality of beauty. There is neither nature nor
the observer. There is a state of mind wholly, completely, alone; it is alone - not in
isolation - alone in stillness and that stillness is beauty. When you love, is there
74