After all, any movement which is worth while, any action which has any deep
significance, must begin with each one of us. l must change first; l must see what
is the nature and structure of my relationship with the world - and in the very
seeing is the doing; therefore l, as a human being living in the world, bring about
a different quality, and that quality, it seems to me, is the quality of the religious
mind.
The religious mind is something entirely different from the mind that believes
in religion. You cannot be religious and yet be a Hindu, a Muslim, a Christian, a
Buddhist. A religious mind does not seek at all, it cannot experiment with truth.
Truth is not something dictated by your pleasure or pain, or by your conditioning
as a Hindu or whatever religion you belong to. The religious mind is a state of
mind in which there is no fear and therefore no belief whatsoever but only what is
what actually is.
In the religious mind there is that state of silence we have already examined
which is not produced by thought but is the outcome of awareness, which is
meditation when the meditator is entirely absent. In that silence there is a state of
energy in which there is no conflict. Energy is action and movement. All action is
movement and all action is energy. All desire is energy. All feeling is energy. All
thought is energy. All living is energy. All life is energy. If that energy is allowed to
flow without any contradiction, without any friction, without any conflict, then that
energy is boundless, endless. When there is no friction there are no frontiers to
energy. It is friction which gives energy limitations. So, having once seen this,
why is it that the human being always brings friction into energy? why does he
create friction in this movement which we call life’? ls pure energy, energy without
limitation, just an idea to him? Does it have no reality?
We need energy not only to bring about a total revolution in ourselves but also
in order to investigate, to look, to act. And as long as there is friction of any kind
in any of our relationships, whether between husband and wife, between man
100