however cleverly put together, however ancient and traditional, is still a small part
of existence whereas we have to deal with the totality of life. And when we look at
what is taking place in the world we begin to understand that there is no outer
and inner process, there is only one unitary process, it is a whole, total
movement, the inner movement expressing itself as the outer and the outer
reacting again on the inner. T o be able to look at this seems to me all that is
needed, because if we know how to look, then the whole thing becomes very
clear, and to look needs no philosophy, no teacher. Nobody need tell you how to
look. You just look.
Can you then, seeing this whole picture, seeing it not verbally but actually, can
you easily, spontaneously, transform yourself ? That is the real issue. ls it possible
to bring about a complete revolution in the psyche?
wonder what your reaction is to such a question? You may say, ‘l don’t want
to change’, and most people don’t, especially those who are fairly secure socially
and economically or who hold dogmatic beliefs and are content to accept
themselves and things as they are or in a slightly modified form. With those
people we are not concerned. Or you may say more subtly, ‘Well, it’s too difficult,
it’s not for me’, in which case you will have already blocked yourself, you will have
ceased to enquire and it will be no use going any further. Or else you may say, ’l
see the necessity for a fundamental inward change in myself but how am l to
bring it about? Please show me the way, help me towards it.’ If you say that, then
what you are concerned with is not change itself, you are not really interested in a
fundamental revolution. you are merely searching for a method, a system, to
bring about change.
If I were foolish enough to give you a system and if you were foolish enough to
follow it, you would merely be copying, imitating, conforming, accepting, and
when you do that you have set up in yourself the authority of another and hence
there is conflict between you and that authority. You feel you must do such and
9