One image, as the observer, observes dozens of other images around himself
and inside himself, and he says,l like this image, I’m going to keep it’ or 'l don’t
like that image so I'll get rid of it’, but the observer himself has been put together
by the various images which have come into being through reaction to various
other images. So we come to a point where we can say, The observer is also the
image, only he has separated himself and observes. This observer who has
come into being through various other images thinks himself permanent and
between himself and the images he has created there is a division, a time
interval. This creates conflict between himself and the images he believes to be
the cause of his troubles. So then he says, ‘l must get rid of this conflict”, but the
very desire to get rid of the conflict creates another image.
Awareness of all this, which is real meditation, has revealed that there is a
central image put together by all the other images, and the central image, the
observer, is the censor, the experiencer, the evaluator, the judge who wants to
conquer or subjugate the other images or destroy them altogether. The other
mages are the result of judgements, opinions and conclusions by the observer,
and the observer is the result of all the other images - therefore the observer is
the observed.
So awareness has revealed the different states of one’s mind, has revealed
the various images and the contradiction between the images, has revealed the
resulting conflict and the despair at not being able to do anything about it and the
various attempts to escape from it. All this has been revealed through cautious
hesitant awareness, and then comes the awareness that the observer is the
observed. It is not a superior entity who becomes aware of this, it is not a higher
self (the superior entity, the higher self, are merely inventions, further images; it is
the awareness itself which had revealed that the observer is the observed.
If you ask yourself a question, who is the entity who is going to receive the
answer? And who is the entity who is going to enquire? If the entity is part of
80