goes beyond this individual and social consciousness, that l can become a light
to myself that never goes out.
Now where do we begin to understand ourselves? Here am l, and how am l to
study myself, observe myself, see what is actually taking place inside myself? I
can observe myself only in relationship because all life is relationship. It is no use
sitting in a corner meditating about myself. I cannot exist by myself. l exist only in
relationship to people, things and ideas, and in studying my relationship to
outward things and people, as well as to inward things, l begin to understand
myself. Every other form of understanding is merely an abstraction and l cannot
study myself in abstraction, l am not an abstract entity, therefore l have to study
myself in actuality - as l am, not as l wish to be.
Understanding is not an intellectual process. Accumulating knowledge about
yourself and learning about yourself are two different things, for the knowledge
you accumulate about yourself is always of the past and a mind that is burdened
with the past is a sorrowful mind. Learning about yourself is not like learning a
language or a technology or in the present and knowledge is always in the past,
and as most of us live in the past and are satisfied with the past, knowledge
becomes extraordinarily important to us. That is why we worship the erudite, the
clever, the cunning. But if you are learning all the time, learning every minute,
learning by watching and listening, learning by seeing and doing, then you will
find that learning is a constant movement without the past.
If you say you will learn gradually about yourself, adding more and more, little
by little, you are not studying yourself now as you are but through acquired
knowledge. Learning implies a great sensitivity. There is no sensitivity if there is
an idea, which is of the past, dominating the present. Then the mind is no longer
quick, pliable, alert. Most of us are not sensitive even physically. We overeat, we
do not bother about the right diet, we oversmoke and drink so that our bodies
become gross and insensitive; the quality of attention in the organism itself is
14