hatred, creating enmity, violence in jealousy and so on - l have experienced it, I
have known it, and l say to myself, ’l want to understand this whole problem not
just one fragment of it expressed in war, but this aggression in man which also
exists in the animals and of which l am a part.’
Violence is not merely killing another. It is violence when we use a sharp word,
when we make a gesture to brush away a person, when we obey because there
is fear. So violence isn’t merely organized butchery in the name of God, in the
name of society or country. Violence is much more subtle, much deeper, and we
are inquiring into the very depths of violence.
When you call yourself an Indian or a Muslim or a Christian or a European, or
anything else, you are being violent. Do you see why it is violent? Because you
are separating yourself from the rest of mankind. When you separate yourself by
belief, by nationality, by tradition, it breeds violence. So a man who is seeking to
understand violence does not belong to any country, to any religion, to any
political party or partial system, he is concerned with the total understanding of
mankind.
Now there are two primary schools of thought with regard to violence, one
which says, Violence is innate in man’ and the other which says, Violence is the
result of the social and cultural heritage in which man lives.’ We are not
concerned with which school we belong to - it is of no importance. What is
important is the fact that we are violent, not the reason for it.
One of the most common expressions of violence is anger. When my wife or
sister is attacked l say l am righteously angry, when my country is attacked, my
ideas, my principles, my way of life, l am righteously angry. l am also angry when
my habits are attacked or my petty little opinions. When you tread on my toes or
insult me l get angry, or if you run away with my wife and l get jealous, that
jealousy is called righteous because she is my property. And all this anger is
morally justified. But to kill for my country is also justified. So when we are talking
40