O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 19
‘well, really!’ said Miss Longnecker.
‘I wonder whether it’s a shooting star,’ remarked Miss Dorn. ‘I
hit nine ducks and a rabbit out of ten in the gallery at Coney
Sunday.’
‘He doesn’t show up very well from down here,’ said Miss
Leeson. ‘You ought to see him from my room. You know you can
see stars even in he daytime from the bottom of a well. At night
my room is like the shaft of a coal-mine, and it makes Billy Jackson
look like the big diamond pin that Night fastens her kimono with.’
There came a time after that when Miss Leeson brought no for-
midable papers home to copy. And when she went in the morning,
instead of working, she went from office to office and let her heart
melt away in the drip of eold refusals transmitted through insolent
office boys. This went on.
There came an evening when she wearily climbed Mrs. Parker’s
stoop at the hour when she always returned from her dinner at the
restaurant. But she had had no dinner.
As she stepped into the hall Mr. Hoover met her and seized his
chance. He asked her to marry him, and his fatness hovered above
her like an avalanche. She dodged, and caught the balustrade. He
tried for her hand, and she raised it and smote him weakly in the
face. Step by step she went up, dragging herself by the railing.
She passed Mr. Skidder’s door as he was red-inking a stage direc-
tion for Myrtle Delorme (Miss Leeson) in his (unaccepted)
comedy, to ‘pirouette across stage from L to the side of the
Count.’ Up the carpeted ladder she crawled at last and opened
the door of the skylight room.
She was too weak to light the lamp or to undress. She fell upon
the iron cot, her fragile body scarcely hollowing the worn springs.
And in that Erebus of a room she slowly raised her heavy eyelids,
and smiled.’
For Billy Jackson was shining down on her, calm and bright and
constant through the skylight. There was no world about her. She
was sunk in a pit of blackness, with but that small square of pallid
light framing the star that she had so whimsically, and oh, so inef-
fectually, named. Miss Longnecker must be right; it was Gamma,
of the constellation Cassiopeia, and not Billy Jackson. And yet she
could not let it be Gamma.
As she lay on her back she tried twice to raise her arm. The
third time she got two thin fingers to her lips and blew a kiss out
of the black pit to Billy Jackson. Her arm fell back limply.
‘Good-bye, Billy,’ she murmured faintly. ‘You’re millions of