330 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
Twenty-sixth Street, safely forded the spring freshet of vehicles in
Fifth Avenue, and meandered along the walks of budding Madison
Square.
The lenient air and the settings of the little park almost formed
a pastoral; the colour motif was green - the presiding shade at the
creation of man and vegetation.
The callow grass between the walks was the colour of verdigris,
a poisonous green, reminiscent of the horde of derelict humans
that had breathed upon the soil during the summer and autumn.
The bursting tee-buds looked strangely familiar to those who had
botanized among the garnishings of the fish course of a forty-cent
dinner. The sky above was of that pale aquamarine tint that hall-
room poets rhyme with ‘true’ and ‘Sue’ and ‘coo.’ The one natural
and frank colour visible was the ostensible green of the newly
painted benches - a shade between the colour of a pickled cucum-
ber and that of a last year’s fast-back cravenette raincoat. But, to
the city-bred eye of Editor Westbrook, the landscape appeared a
masterpiece.
And now, whether you are of those who rush in, or of the gentle
concourse that fears to tread, you must follow in a brief invasion
of the editor’s mind.
Editor Westbrook's spirit was contented and serene. The April
number of the Minerva had sold its entire edition before the tenth
day of the month - a newsdealer in Keokuk had written that he
could have sold fifty copies more if he had had ’em. The owners of
the magazine had raised his (the editor’s) salary; he had just
installed in his home a jewel of a recently imported cook who was
afraid of policemen; and the morning papers had published in full
a speech he had made at a publishers’ banquet. Also there were
echoing in his mind the jubilant notes of a splendid song that his
charming young wife had sung to him before he left his uptown
apartment that morning. She was taking enthusiastic interest in
her music of late, practising early and diligently. When he had
complimented her on the improvement in her voice she had fairly
hugged him for joy at his praise. He felt, too, the benign, tonic
medicament of the trained nurse, Spring, tripping softly adown
the wards of the convalescent city.
While Editor Westbrook was sauntering between rows of park
benches (already filling with vagrants and the guardians of lawless
childhood) he felt his sleeve grasped and held. Suspecting that he
was about to be panhandled, he turned a cold and unprofitable
face, and saw that his captor was - Dawe - Shackleford Dawe,