O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 287
lip, and hair the exact colour of the little orphan’s (afterward dis-
covered to be the earl’s daughter) in one of Mr. Blaney’s plays. His
trousers were corduroy, his coat short-sleeved, with buttons in the
middle of his back. One bootleg was outside the corduroys. You
looked expectantly, though in vain, at his straw hat for ear-holes,
its shape inaugurating the suspicion that it had been ravaged from
a former equine possessor. In his hand was a valise - description of
it is an impossible task; a Boston man would not have carried his
lunch and law books to his office in it. And above one ear, in his
hair, was a wisp of hay - the rustic’s letter of credit, his badge of
innocence, the last clinging touch of the Garden of Eden lingering
to shame the goldbrick men.
Knowingly, smilingly, the city crowds passed him by. They saw
the raw stranger stand in the gutter and stretch his neck at the tall
buildings. At this they ceased to smile, and even to look at him. It
had been done so ofren. A few glanced at the antique valise to see
what Coney ‘attraction’ or brand of chewing-gum he might be
thus dinning into his memory. But for the most part he was
ignored. Even the newsboys looked bored when he scampered like
a circus clown out of the way of cabs and street-cars.
At Eighth Avenue stood ‘Bunco Harry,’ with his dyed mous-
tache and shiny, good-natured eyes. Harry was too good an artist
not to be pained at the sight of an actor overdoing his part. He
edged up to the countryman, who had stopped to open his mouth
at a jewellery store window, and shook his head.
‘Too thick, pal,’ he said critically - ‘too thick by a couple of
inches I don't know what your lay is; but you’ve got the properties
on too thick. That hay, now - why, they don’t even allow that on
Proctor’s circuit any more.’
‘I don’t understand you, mister,’ said the green one. ‘I’m not
lookin’ for any circus. I’ve just run down from Ulster County to
look at the town, bein’ that the hayin’s over with. Gosh! but it’s a
whopper. I thought Poughkeepsie was some punkins; but this here
town is five times as big.’
‘Oh, well,’ said ‘Bunco Harry,’ raising his eyebrows, ‘I didn't
mean to butt in. You don’t have to tell. I thought you ought to
tone down a little, so I tried to put you wise. Wish you success at
your graft, whatever it is. Come and have a drink, anyhow.’
‘I wouldn’t mind having a glass of lager beer,’ acknowledged the
other.
They went to a cafe frequented by men with smooth faces and
shifty eyes, and sat at their drinks.