306 0 HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
He led her to the door.
‘Go to your room for awhile,’ I heard him say. ‘I will remain
and talk with him. His mind? No, I think not - only a portion of
the brain. Yes, I am sure he will recover. Go to your room and
leave me with him.’
The lady disappeared. The man in dark clothes also went out-
side, still manicuring himself in a thoughtful way. I think he
waited in the hall.’
‘I would like to talk with you a while, Mr. Pinkhammer, if I
may,’ said the gentleman who remained.
‘Very well, if you care to,’ I replied, ‘and will excuse me if I take
it comfortably; I am rather tired.’ I stretched myself upon a couch
by a window and lit a cigar. He drew a chair near by.
‘Let us speak to the point,’ he said soothingly. ‘Your name is not
Pinkhammer.’
‘I know that as well as you do,’ I said coolly. ‘But a man must
have a name of some sort. I can assure you that I do not extrava-
gantly admire the name of Pinkhammer. But when one christens
one’s self, suddenly the fine names do not seem to suggest them-
selves. But suppose it had been Scheringhausen or Scroggins! I
think I did very well with Pinkhammer.’
‘Your name,’ said the other man seriously, ‘is Elwyn C. Bellford.
You are one of the first lawyers in Denver. You are suffering from
an attack of aphasia, which has caused you to forget your identity.
The cause of it was over-application to your profession, and, per-
haps, a life too bare of natural recreation and pleasures. The lady
who has just left the room is your wife.’
‘She is what I would call a fine-looking woman,’ I said, after a
judicial pause. ‘I particularly admire the shade of brown in her
hair.’
‘She is a wife to be proud of. Since your disappearance, nearly
two weeks ago, she has scarcely closed her eyes. We learned that
you were in New York through a telegram sent by Isidore
Newman, a travelling man from Denver. He said that he had met
you in an hotel here, and that you did not recognize him.’
‘I think I remember the occasion,’ I said. ‘The fellow called me
"Bellford,” if I am not mistaken. But don’t you think it about time,
now, for you to introduce yourself?’
‘I am Robert Volney - Dnctor Volney. I have been your close
friend for twenty years, and your physician for fifteen. I came with
Mrs. Bellford to trace you as soon as we got the telegram. Try,
Elwyn, old man - try to remember!'