O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES     183 
When it was light enough Johnsy, the merciless, commanded
that the shade be raised.
The ivy leaf was still there.
Johnsy lay for a long time looking at it. And then she called to
Sue, who was stirring her chicken broth over the gas stove.
‘I’re been a bad girl, Sudie,’ said Johnsy. ‘Something has made
tat last leaf stay there to show me how wicked I was. It is a sin to
want to die. You may bring me a little broth now, and some milk
with a little port in it, and - no; bring me a hand-mirror first, and
then pack some pillows about me, and I will sit up and watch you
cook.’
An hour later she said -
‘Sudie, some day I hope to paint the Bay of Naples.'
‘The doctor came in the afternoon, and Sue had an excuse to go
into the hallway as he left.
‘Even chances,’ said the doctor, talking Sue’s thin, shaking hand
in his. ‘With good nursing you’ll win. And now I must see another
ease I have downstairs. Behrman, his name is -- some kind of an
artist, I believe. Pneumonia, too. He is an old, weak man, and the
attack is acute. There is no hope fur him; but he goes to the hospital
to-day to be made more comfortable.’
The next day the doctor said to Sue: ‘She’s out of danger.
You’ve won. Nutrition and car-e now - that’s all.'
And that afternoon Sue came to the bed where Johnsy lay, con-
tentedly knitting a very blue and very useless woollen shoulder
scarf, and put one arm around her, pillows and all.
‘I have something to tell you, white mouse,’ she said. ‘Mr.
Behrman died of pneumonia today in hospital. He was ill only two
days. The janitor found him on the morning of the first day in his
room downstairs helpless with pain. His shoes and clothing were
wet through and icy cold. They couldn’t imagine where he had
been on such a dreadful night. And then they found a lantern, still
lighted, and a ladder that had been dragged from its place, and some
scattered brushes, and a palette with green and yellow colours
mixed on it, and - look out the window, dear, at the last ivy leaf on
the wall. Didn’t you wonder why it never fluttered or moved when
the wind blew? Ah, darling, it’s Behrman’s masterpiece - he painted
it there the night that the last leaf fell.’