O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES     79
He burrowed in crevices and corners, and found corks and ciga-
rettes. These he passed in passive contempt. But once he found in
a fold of the matting a half-smoked cigar, and this he ground
beneath his heel with a green and trenchant oath. He sifted the
room from end to end. He found dreary and ignoble small records
of many a peripatetic tenant; but of her whom he sought, and who
may have lodged there, and whose spirit seemed to hover there, he
found no trace.
And then he thought of the housekeeper.
He ran from the haunted room downstairs and to a door that
showed a crack of light. She came out to his knock. He smothered
his excitement as best he could.
‘Will you tell me, madam,’ he besought her, ‘who occupied the
room I have before I came?’
‘Yes, sir. I can tell you again. ‘Twas Sprowls and Mooney, as I
said. Miss B’retta Sprowls it was in the theatres, but Missis
Mooney she was. My house is well known fur respectability. The
marriage certificate hung, framed, on a nail over -’
‘What kind of a lady was Miss Sprowls - in looks, I mean?’
‘Why, black-haired, sir, short and stout, with a comical face.
They left a week ago 'Tuesday.’
‘And before they occupied it?’
‘Why, there was a single gentleman connected with the draying
business. He left owing me a week. Before him was Missis Crowder
and her two children, that stayed four months; and back of them
was old Mr. Doyle, whose sons paid for him. He kept the room six
months.That goes back a year, sir, and further I do not remember.'
He thanked her and crept back to his room. The room was
dead. ‘The essence that had vivified it was gone. T’he perfume of
mignonette had departed. In its place was the old, stale odour of
mouldy house furniture, of atmosphere in storage.
The ebbing of his hope drained his faith. He sat staring at the
yellow, singing gaslight. Soon he walked to the bed and began to
tear the sheets into strips. With the blade of his knife he drove
them tightly into every crevice around windows and door. When
all was snug and taut he turned out the light turned the gas full on
again and laid himself gratefully upon the bed.
It was Mrs. McCool’s night to go with the can for beer. So she
fetched it and sat with Mrs. Purdy in one of those subterranean