28   O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
the coat staining at its buttons over the chest, the air of conscious
conviction of the super-eminence of the male in the cosmogony of
creation, even a calm display of bow legs as subduing and enchant-
ing agents in the gentle tourneys of Cupid - these were the
approved arms and ammunition of the Clover Leaf gallants. They
viewed, then, the genuflexions and alluring poses of this visitor
with their chins at a new angle.
A friend of mine, Mr. Terry O’Sullivan,’ was Maggie’s formula
of introduction. She led him around the room, presenting him to
each new-arriving Clover Leaf. Almost was she pretty now, with
the unique luminosity in her eyes that comes to a girl with her
first suitor and a kitten with its first mouse.
‘Maggie Toole’s got a fellow at last,’ was the word that went
round among the paper-box girls. ‘Pipe Mag’s floor-walker’ - thus
the Give and Takes expressed their indifferent contempt.
Usually at the weekly hops Maggie kept a spot on the wall warm
with her back. She felt and showed so much gratitude whenever a
self-sacrificing partner invited her to dance that his pleasure was
cheapened and diminished. She had even grown used to noticing
Anna joggle the reluctant Jimmy with her elbow as a signal for
him to invite her chum to walk over his feet through a two-step.
But to-night the pumpkin had turned to a coach and six. Terry
O’Sullivan was a victorious Prince Charming, and Maggie Toole
winged her first butterfly flight. And though our tropes of fairy-
land be mixed with those of entomology they shall not spill one
drop of ambrosia from the rose-crowned melody of Maggie’s one
perfect night.
The girls besieged her for introductions to her ‘fellow.’ The
Clover Leaf young men, after two years of blindness, suddenly
perceived charms in Miss Toole. They flexed their compelling
muscles before her and bespoke her for the dance
Thus she scored; but to Terry O’Sullivan the honours of the
evening fell thick and fast. He shook his curls, he smiled and went
easily through the seven motions for acquiring grace in your own
room before an open window ten minutes each day. He danced like
a faun; he introduced manner and style and atmosphere; his words
came trippingly upon his tongue, and - he waltzed twice in succes-
sion with the paper-box girl that Dempsey Donovan brought.
Dempsey was the leader of the association. He wore a dress suit,
and could chin the bar twice with one hand. He was one of ‘Big
Mike’ O’Sullivan’s lieutenants, and was never troubled by trouble.
No cop dared to arrest him. Whenever he broke a push-cart man’s