O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    331
dingy, almost ragged, the genteel scarcely visible in him through
the deeper lines of the shabby.
While the editor is pulling himself out of his surprise, a flash-
light biography of Dawe is offered.
He was a fiction writer, and one of Vestbrook’s old acquain-
tances. At one time they might have called each other old friends.
Dawe had some money in those days, and lived in a decent apart-
ment-house near Westbrook’s. The two families often went to
theatres and dinners together. Mrs. Dawe and Mrs. Westbrook
became ‘dearest’ friends. Then one day a little tentacle of the
octopus, just to amuse itself, ingurgitated Dawe’s capital, and he
moved to the Gramercy Park neighbourhood, where one, for a
few groats per week, may sit upon one’s trunk under eight-
branched chandeliers and opposite Carrara marble mantels and
watch the mice play upon the floor. Dawe thought to live by writ-
ing fiction. Now and then he sold a story. He submitted many to
Westbrook. The Minerva printed one or two of them; the rest
were returned. Westbrook sent a careful and conscientious per-
sonal letter with each rejected manuscript, pointing out in detail
his reasons for considering it unavailable. Editor Westbrook had
his own clear conception of what constituted good fiction. So had
Dawe. Mrs. Dawe was mainly concerned about the constituents
of the scanty dishes of food that she managed to scrape together.
One day Dawe had been spouting to her about the excellences
of certain French writers. At dinner they sat down to a dish that
a hungry schoolboy could have encompassed at a gulp. Dawe
commented’
‘It’s Maupassant hash,’ said Mrs. Dawe. ‘It may not be art, but I
do wish you would do a five course Marion Crawford serial with
an Ella Wheeler Wilcox sonnet for dessert. I’m hungry.’
As far as this from success was Shackleford Dawe when he
plucked Editor Westbrook’s sleeve in Madison Square. That was
the first time the editor had seen Dawe in several months.
‘Why, Shack, is this you?’ said Westbrook somewhat awk-
wardly, for the form of this phrase seemed to touch upon the
other’s changed appearance.
‘Sit down for a minute,’ said Dawe, tugging at his sleeve. ‘This
is my office. I can’t come to yours, looking as I do. Oh, sit down -
you won’t be disgraced. Those half-plucked birds on the other
benches will take you for a swell porch-climber. They won’t know
you are only an editor.’
‘Smoke, Shack?’ said Editor Westbrook, sinking cautiously