O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 309
other hotel in the world where you can get such chicken livers en
brochette.
A dinner I asked a negro waiter if there was anything doing in
town. He pondered gravely for a minute, and then replied?
‘Well, boss, I don’t really reckon there’s anything at all doin’
after sundown.’
Sundown had been accomplished; it had been drowned in the
drizzle long before. Sn that spectacle was denied me. But I went
forth upon the streets in the drizzle to see what might be there.
It is built on undulating grounds; and the streets are lighted by electricity at
a cost of $32,470 per annum.
As I left the hotel there was a race riot. Down upon me charged
a company of freedmen, or Arabs, or Zulus, armed with - no, I
saw with relief that they were not rifles, but whips. Nnd I saw
dimly a caravan of black, clumsy vehicles; and at the reassuring
shouts, ‘Kyar you anywhere in the town, boss, fuh fifty cents,’ I
reasoned that I was merely a ‘fare’ instead of a victim.
I walked through long streets, all leading uphill. I wondered how
those streets ever came down again. Perhaps they didn’t until they
were ‘graded.’ On a few of the ‘main streets’ I saw lights in stores
here and there; saw street-cars go by conveying worthy burghers
hither and yon; saw people pass engaged in the art of conversation,
and heard a burst of semi-lively laughter issuing from a soda-water
and ice-cream parlour. The streets other than ‘main’ seemed to
have enticed upon their borders houses consecrated to peace and
domesticity. In many of them lights shone behind discreetly drawn
window shades; in a few pianos tinkled orderly and irreproachable
music. There was, indeed, little ‘doing.’ I wished I had come before
sundown. So I returned to my hotel.
In November, 1864, the Confederate General Hood advanced against
Nashville, where he shut up a National force under General Thomas. The
latter then sallied forth and defeated the confederates in a terrible conflict.
All my life I have heard of, admired, and witnessed the fine
marksmanship of the South in its peaceful conflicts in the tobacco-
chewing regions. But in my hotel a surprise awaited me. There
were twelve bright, new, imposing, capacious brass cuspidors in
the great lobby, tall enough to be called urns and so wide-
mouthed that the crack pitcher of a lady baseball team should