12     O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
that faux par. He was foxier still. Finger-bowls were not beyond
the compass of his experience. They were not to be had in the
Pension Murphy; but their equivalent was at hand. Triumphantly
he sent the granite-ware wash-basin at the head of his matrimo-
nial adversary. Mrs. McCaskey dodged in time. She reached for a
flat-iron, with with, as a sort of cordial, she hoped to bring the
gastronomical duel to a close. But a loud, wailing scream down-
stairs caused both her and Mr. McCaskey to pause in a sort of
involuntary armistice.
On the sidewalk at the corner of the house Policeman Cleary
was standing with one ear upturned, listening to the crash of
household utensils’
‘Tis Jawn McCaskey and his missus at it again,’ meditated the
policeman. ‘I wonder shall I go up and stop the row. I will not.
Married folks they are; and few pleasures they have. ‘Twill not last
long. Sure, they’ll have to borrow more dishes to keep it up with.’
And just then came the loud scream below-stairs, betokening
fear or dire extremity. ‘ ‘Tis probably the cat’ said Policeman
Cleary, and walked hastily in the other direction!
The boarders on the steps were fluttered. Mr. Toomey, an
insurance solicitor by birth and an investigator by profession,
went inside to analyse the scream. He returned with the news that
Mrs. Murphy’s little boy Mike was lost. Following the messenger;
our bounced Mrs. Murphy - two hundred pounds in tears and
hysterics, clutching the air and howling to the sky for the loss of
thirty pounds of freckles and mischief. Bathos, truly; but Mr.
Toomey sat down at the side of Miss Purdy, milliner, and their
hands came together in sympathy. The two old maids, Misses
Walsh, who complained every day about the noise in the halls,
inquired immediately if anybody had looked behind the clock.
Major Grigg, who sat by his fat wife on the top step, arose and
buttoned his coat. 'The lite one lost?’ he exclaimed. ‘I will scour
the city.’ His wife never allowed him out after dark. But now she
said: ‘Go, Ludovicl’ in a baritone voice. ‘Whoever can look upon
that mother’s grief without springing to her relief has a heart of
stone.’ ‘Give me some thirty or - sixty cents, my love,’ said the
Major. ‘Lost children sometimes stray far. I may need car -fares.
Old man Denny, hall-room, fourth floor back, who sat on the
lowest step, trying to read a paper by the street lamp, turned over
a page to follow up the article about the carpenters’ strike. Mrs.
Murphy shrieked to the moon: ‘Oh, ar-r-Mike, Fr Gawd’s sake,
where is me little bit av a boy?’