318 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
‘I judge that pretty pretty poor,’ I said. ‘She hasn’t much money
to speak of, has she?’
For an instant I looked again at the fierce countenance of King
Cetewayo, and then he changed back to an extortionate old negro
hack-driver.
‘She a’n’t gwine to starve, suh,’ he said slowly. ‘She has reso’ces,
suh; she has reso’ces.’
‘I shall pay you fifty cents for the trip,’ said I.
‘Dat is puffeckly correct, suh,’ he answered humbly; ‘I jus’ had
to have dat two dollars dis mawnin, boss.’
I went to the hotel and lied by electricity. I wired the magazine:
‘A. Adair holds out for eight cents a word.’
The answer that came back was: ‘Give it to her quick, you
duffer.’
Just before dinner ‘Major’ Wentworth Caswell bore down upon
me with the greetings of a long-lost friend. I have seen few men
whom I have so instantaneously hated, and of whom it was so dif-
ficult to be rid. I was standing at the bar when he invaded me;
therefore I could not wave the White ribbon in his face. I would
have paid gladly for the drinks, hoping thereby to escape another,
but he was one of those despicable, roaring, advertising bibbers
who must have brass bands and fireworks attend upon every cent
that they waste in their follies.
With an air of producing millions he drew two one-dollar bills
from a pocket and dashed one of them upon the bar. I looked once
more at the dollar bill with the upper right-hand corner missing, torn
through the middle, and patched with a strip of blue tissue-paper. Ir
was my dollar bill again. It could have been no other.
I went up to my room. The drizzle and the monotony of a
dreary, eventless Southern town had made me tired and listless. I
remember that just before I went to bed I mentally disposed of the
mysterious dollar bill (which might have formed the clue to a
tremendously fine detective story of San Francisco) by saying to
myself sleepily: ‘Seems as if a lot of people here own stock in the
Hack-Driver’s Trust. Pays dividends promptly, too. Wonder if -'
Then I fell asleep.
King Cetewayo was at his post the next day, and rattled my
bones over the stones out to 861. He was to wait and rattle me
back again when I was ready.
Azalea Adair looked paler and cleaner and frailer than she had
looked on the day before. After she had signed the contract at eight
cents per word she grew still paler and began to slip out of her chair.