308 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
Of course they have, in the climate, an argument that is good
for half an hour while you are thinking of your coal bills and heavy
underwear. But as soon as they come to mistake your silence for
conviction, madness comes upon them, and they picture the city
of the Golden Gate as the Bagdad of the New World. So far, as a
matter of opinion, no refutation is necessary. But, dear cousins all
(from Adam and Eve descended), it is a rash one who will lay his
finger on the map and say: ‘In this town there can be no romance
- what could happen here?’ Yes, it is a bold and a rash deed to
challenge in one sentence history, romance, and Rand and
McNally.
NASHVlLLE. - A city, port of delivery, and the capital of the State of Ten-
nessee, is on the Cumberland River and on the N.C. & St. L. and the L. & N.
railroads. This city is regarded as the most important educational centre in the
South.
I stepped off the train at 8 p.m. Having searched the thesaurus in
vain for adjectives, I must, as a substitution, hie me to comparison
in the form of a recipe.
Take of London fog 30 parts; malaria 10 parts; gas leaks 20
parts; dewdrops, gathered in a brickyard at sunrise, 25 parts; odour
of honeysuckle 15 parts. Mix.
The mixrure will give you an approximate conception of a
Nashville drizzle. It is not so fragrant as a moth-ball nor as thick
as pea-soup; but ’tis enough - ’twill serve.
I went to an hotel in a tumbril. It required strong self-suppres-
sion for me to keep from climbing to the top of it and giving an
imitation of Sidney Carton. The vehicle was drawn by beasts of a
bygone era and driven by something dark and emancipated.
I was sleepy and tired, so when I got to the hotel I hurriedly
paid it the fifty cents it demanded (with approximate lagniappe, I
assure you). I knew its habits; and I did not want to hear it prate
about its old ‘marster’ or anything that happened ‘befo’ de wah.’
The hotel was one of the kinddescribedd as ‘renovated.’ That
means $20,000 worth of new marble pillars, tiling, electric lights
and brass cuspidors in the lobby, and a new L. & N. time table
and a lithograph of Lookout Mountain in each one of the great
rooms above. The management was without reproach, the atten-
tion full of exquisite Southern courtesy, the service as slow as the
progress of a snail and as good-humoured as Rip Van Winkle.
The food was worth travelling a thousand miles for. There is no