182       O HENRY - 100 ELECTED STORIES 
‘She is very ill and weak,’ said Sue, ‘and the fever has left her
mind morbid and full of strange fancies. Very well, Mr. Behrman,
if you do not care to pose for me, you needn’t. But I think you are
a horrid old - old flibberti-gibber.’
‘You are just like a woman!’ yelled Behrman. ‘Who said I vill
not bose? Go on. I come mit you. For half an hour I haf peen
trying to say dot I am ready to bose. Gott! dis is not any place in
which one so goot as Miss Yohnsy shall lie sick. Some day I vill
baint a masterpiece, and ve shall all go avay. Gott! yes.’
Johnsy was sleeping when they went upstairs. Sue pulled the
shade down to the window-sill and motioned Behrrnan into the
other room. In there they peered out the window fearfully at the
ivy vine. Then they looked at each other for a moment without
speaking. A persistent, cold rain was falling, mingled with snow.
Behrman, in his old blue shirt, took his seat as the hermit-miner
on an upturned kettle for a rock.
When Sue awoke from an hour’s sleep the next morning she
found Johnsy with dull, wide-open eyes staring at the drawn green
shade.
‘Pull it up! I want to see,’ she ordered, in a whisper.
Wearily Sue obeyed.
But, lo! after the beating rain and fierce gusts of wind that had
endured through the livelong night, there yet stood out against
the brick wall one ivy leaf. It was the last on the vine. Still dark
green near its stem, but with its serrated edges tinted with the
yellow of dissolution and decay, it hung bravely fro a branch
some twenty feet above the ground.
‘It is the last one,’ said Johnsy. ‘I thought it would surely fall
during the night. I heard the wind. It will fall to-day, and I shall
die at the same time.’
‘Dear, dear!’ said Sue, leaning her worn face down to the pillow;
‘think of me, if you won’t think of yourself. What would I do?’
But Johnsy did not answer. ‘The lonesomest thing in all the
world is a soul when it is making ready to go on its mysterious,
far journey. The fancy seemed to possess her more strongly as
one by one the ties that bound her to friendship and to earth were
loosed.
The day wore away, and even through the twilight they could
see the lone ivy leaf clinging to its stem against the wall. And then,
with the coming of the night the north wind was again loosed,
while the rain still beat against the windows and pattered down
From the low Dutch eaves.’