76             O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
there is plenty of closer room. It’s a room everybody likes. It never
stays idle long.’
‘Do you have many theatrical people rooming here?’ asked the
young man.
‘They comes and goes. A good proportion of my lodgers is con-
nected with the theatres. Yes, sir, this is the theatrical district.
Actor people never stays long anywhere. I get my share. Yes, they
comes and they goes.'
He engaged the room, paying for a week in advance. He was
tired, he said, and would take possession at once. He counted out
the money. The room had been made ready, she said, even to
towels and water. As the housekeeper moved away lie put, for the
thousandth time, the question that he carried at the end of his
tongue.
‘A young girl - Miss Vashner - Miss Eloise Vashner - do you
remember such a one among your lodgers? She would be singing
on the stage, most likely. A fair girl, of medium height and slender,
with reddish gold hair and a dark mole near her left eyebrow.’
‘No, I don’t remember the name. Them stage people has names
they change as often as their rooms. ‘They comes and they goes.
No, I don’t call that one to mind.’
No. Always no. Five months of ceaseless interrogation and the
inevitable negative. So much time spent by day in questioning
managers, agents, schools and choruses; by night among the audi-
ences of theatres From all-star casts down to music-halls so low
that he dreaded to find what he most hoped for. He who had loved
her best had tried to find her. He was sure that since her disap-
pearance from home this great water-girt city held her some-
where, but it was like a monstrous quicksand, shifting its particles
constantly, with no foundation, its upper granules of to-day buried
to-morrow in ooze and slime.
The furnished room received its latest guest with a first glow of
pseudo-hospitality, a hectic, haggard, perfunctory welcome like
the specious smile of a demirep. The sophistical comfort came in
reflected gleams from the decayed furniture, the ragged brocade
upholstery of a couch and two chairs, a footwide cheap pier glass
between the two windows, from one or two gilt picture frames and
a brass bedstead in a corner.
The guest reclined, inert, upon a chair, while the room, con-
fused in speech as though it were an apartment in Babel, tried to
discourse to him of its divers tenantry.
A polychromatic rug like some brilliant-flowered, rectangular,