O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES       75
Homeless, they have a hundred homes. They flit from furnished
room to furnished room, transients for ever - transients in abode,
transients in heart and mind. ‘They sing ‘Home Sweet Home’ in
ragtime; they carry their lares et penates in a bandbox; their vine is
entwined about a picture hat; a rubber plant is their fig tree.
Hence the houses of this district, having had a thousand
dwellers, should have a thousand tales to tell, mostly dull ones, no
doubt; but it would he strange if there could not be found a ghost
or two in the wake of all these vagrant ghosts.
One evening after dark a young man prowled among these
crumbling red mansions, ringing their bells. At the twelfth he
rested his lean hand-baggage upon the step and wiped the dust
From his hat-band and forehead. ‘The bell sounded faint and far
away in some remote, hollow depths.
To the door of this, the twelfth house whose bell he had rung,
came a housekeeper who made him think of an unwholesome, sur-
feited worm that had eaten its nut to a hollow shell and row
sought to fill the vacancy with edible lodgers.
He asked if there was a room to let.
‘Come in,’ said the housekeeper. Her voice came from her
throat; her throat seemed lined with fur. ‘I have the third floor
back, vacant since a week back. Should you wish to look at it?’
The young man followed her up the stairs. A faint light from no
particular source mitigated the shadows of the halls. They trod
noiselessly upon a stair carpet that its own loom would have for-
sworn. It seemed to have become vegetable; to have degenerated
in that rank, sunless air to lush lichen or spreading moss that grew
in patches to the staircase and was viscid under the foot like
organic matter. At each turn of the stairs were vacant niches in the
wall. Perhaps plants had once been set within them. If so they had
died in that foul and tainted air. It may he that statues of the saints
had stood there, but it was not difficult to conceive that imps and
devils had dragged them forth in the darkness and down to the
unholy depths of some furnished pit below.
‘This is the room,’ said the housekeeper, from her furry throat
‘It’s a nice room. It ain’t often vacant. I had some most elegant
people in it last summer - no trouble at all, and paid in advance to
the minute. The water’s at the end of the hall. Sprowls and
Mooney-kept it three months. ‘They done a vaudeville sketch.
Miss B’retta Sprowls - you may have heard of her - Oh, that was
just the stage names - right there over the dresser is where the
marriage certificate hung, framed. The gas is here, and you see