298  O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
When I set out I had no thought or premonition of what was to
occur. The attack came suddenly.
For many weeks I had been toiling, almost night and day, at a
famous railroad law ease that I won triumphantly but a few days
previously. In fact, I had been digging away at the law almost
without cessation for many years. Once or twice good Doctor
Volney, my friend and physician, had warned me.
‘If you don’t slacken up, Bellford,’ he said, ‘you’ll go suddenly to
pieces. Either your nerves or your brain will give way. Tell we,
does a week pass in which you do not read in the papers of a case
of aphasia - of some man lost, wandering nameless, with his past
and his identity blotted out - and all from that little brain-clot
made by overwork or worry?’
‘I always thought’ said I, ‘that the clot in those instances was
really to be found on the brains of the newspaper reporters.’
Dr. Volney shook his head.
‘The disease exists,’ he said. ‘You need a change or a rest!
Court-room, office and home - there is the only route you travel.
For recreation you - read law books. Better take warning in time.’
‘On Thursday nights,’ I said defensively, ‘my wife and I play
cribbage. On Sundays she reads to me the weekly letter from her
mother. That law books are not a recreation remains yet to be
established.’
That morning as I walked I was thinking of Doctor Volney’s
words. I was feeling as well as I usually did - possibly in better
spirits than usual.
I awoke with stiff and cramped muscles from having slept long
on the incommodious seat of a day coach. I leaned my head
against the seat and tied to think. After a long time I said to
myself: ‘I must have a name of some sort.’ I searched my pockets.
Not a card; not a letter; not a paper or monogram could I find.
But I found in my coat pocket nearly $3,00 in bills of large
denomination. ‘I must he someone, of course,’ I repeated to
myself, and began again to consider.
The car was well crowded with men, among whom I told myself,
there must have been some common interest, for they intermingled
freely, and seemed in the best good-humour and spirits. One of
them - a stout, spectacled gentleman enveloped in a decided odour
of cinnamon and aloes - took the vacant half of my seat with a
friendly nod, and unfolded a newspaper. In the intervals between
his periods of reading, we conversed, as travellers will, on current