O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES      335 
‘And again,’ continued the editor, without pausing for argu-
ment, ‘when Berenice opens the letter from her husband inform-
ing her that he has fled with the manicure girl, her words are - let
me see -’
‘She says,’ interposed the author: ‘ ‘Well, what do you think of
that!” A
‘Ahsurdly inappropriate words,’ said Westbrook, ‘presenting
an anti-climax - plunging the story into hopeless bathos. Worse
yer; they mirror life falsely. No human being ever uttered banal
colloquialisms when confronted by sudden tragedy.’
‘Wrong,’ said Dawe, closing his unshaven jaws doggedly. ‘I say
no man or woman ever spouts highfalutin talk when they go up
against a real climax. ‘They talk naturally, and a little worse.’
The editor rose from the bench with his air of indulgence and
inside information.
Say, Westbrook,’ said Dawe, pinning him by the lapel, ‘would
you have accepted ‘ The Alarum of the Soul’ if you had believed
that the actions and words of the characters were re to life in the
parts of the story that we discussed?’
‘It is very likely that I would, if I believed that way,’ sail the
editor. ‘But I have explained to you that I do not.’
‘If I could prove to you that I am right?’
‘I’m sorry, Shack, but I’in afraid I haven’t time to argue any
further just now.’
‘I don’t want to argue,’ said Dawe:. ‘I want to demonstrate to
you from life itself that my view is the correct one.'
‘How could you do that?’ asked Westbrook in a surprised tone.
‘Listen,’ said the writer seriously. ‘I have thought of a way. It is
important to me that my theory of true-to-life fiction be recog-
nized as correct by the magazines. I’ve fought for it for three
years, and I’m down to my last dollar, with two months’ rent due.’
‘I have applied the opposite of your theory,’ said the editor, ‘in
selecting the fiction for the Minerva Magazine. The circulation has
gone up from ninety thousand to -’
‘Four hundred thousand,’ said Dawe. ‘Whereas it should have
been boosted o a million.’
‘You said something to me just now about demonstrating your
pet theory.’
‘I will. If you’ll give me about half an hour of your time I’ll
prove to you that I am right. I’ll prove it by Louise.’
‘Your wife!’ exclaimed Westbrook. ‘How?’
‘Well, not exactly by her, but with her,’ said Dawe. ‘Now, you