O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES     39
If men knew how women pass the time when they are alone
they’d never marry. Laura Lean Jibbey, peanut brittle, a little
almond cream on the neck muscles, dishes unwashed, half an
hour’s talk with the iceman, reading a package of old letters, a
couple of pickles and two bottles of malt extract, one hour peeking
through a hole in the window shade into the flat across the air-
shaft - that’s about all there is to it. Twenty minutes before time
for him to come hone from work she straightens up the house,
fixes her rat so it won’t show, and gets out a lot of sewing for a
ten-minute bluff.
I led a dog’s life in that flat. ‘Most all day I lay there in my
corner watching the fat woman kill time. I slept sometimes and
had pipe dreams about being out chasing eats into basements and
growling at old ladies with black mittens, as a dog was intended to
do. Then she would pounce upon me with a lot of that drivelling
poodle palaver and kiss me on the nose - hut what could I do? A
dog can’t chew cloves.
I began to feel sorry for Hubby, dog my eats if I didn’t. We
looked so much alike that people noticed it when we went out; so
we shook the streets that Morgan’s cab drives down, and took to
climbing the piles of last December’s snow on the streets where
cheap people live.
One evening when we were thus promenading, and I was trying
to look like a prize St. Bernard, and the old man was trying to look
like he wouldn’t have murdered the Erst organ-grinder he heard
play Mendelssohn’s wedding-march, I looked up at him and said,
in my way:
‘What are you looking so sour about, you oakum trimmed lob-
ater? She don’t kiss you. You don’t have to sit on her lap and listen
to talk that would make the book of a musical comedy sound like
the maxims of Epictetus. You ought to he thankful you’re not a
dog. Brace up, Benedick, and bid the blues begone.’
The matrimonial mishap looked down at me with almost canine
Intelligence in his face.
‘Why, doggie,’ says he, ‘good doggie. You almost look like you
could speak. What is it, doggie - Cats?’
Cats! Could speak!
But, of course, he couldn’t understand. Humans were denied
the speech of animals. The only common ground of communica-
tion upon which dogs and men can get together is in fiction.
In the flat across the hall from us lived a lady with a black-and-
tan terrier. Her husband strung it and took it our every evening,