O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    31
But Maggie was off, darting her zigzag way through the maze of
dancers. She burst through the rear door into the dark hall and
then threw her solid shoulder against the door of the room of
single combat. It gave way, and in the instant that she entered her
eye caught the scene - the Board standing about with open
watches; Dempsey Donovan in his shirt-sleeves dancing, light-
footed, with the wary grace of the modern pugilist, within easy
reach of his adversary; Terry O’Sullivan standing with arm folded
and a murderous look in his dark eyes. And without slacking the
speed of her entrance she leaped forward with a scream - leaped in
time to catch and hang upon the arm of O’Sullivan that was sud-
denly uplifted, and to whisk from it the long, bright stiletto that
he had drawn from his bosom.
The knife fell and rang upon the floor. Cold steel drawn in the
rooms of the Give and Take Association! Such a thing had never
happened before. Every one stood motionless for a minute. Andy
Geoghan kicked the stiletto with the toe of his shoe curiously, like
an antiquarian who has come upon some ancient weapon
unknown to his learning.
And then O’Sullivan hissed something unintelligible between
his teeth. Dempsey and the Board exchanged looks. And then
Dempsey looked at O’Sullivan without anger as one looks at a
stray dog, and nodded his head in the direction of the door.
‘The back stairs, Giuseppi,’ he said briefly. ‘Somebody’ll pitch
your hat down after you.'
Maggie walked up to Dempsey Donovan. There was a brilliant
spot of red in her cheeks, down which slow tears were running.
But she looked him bravely in the eye.
‘I knew it, Dempsey,’ she said, as her eyes grew dull even in
their tears. ‘I knew he was a Guinea. His name’s Tony Spinelli. I
hurried in when they told me you and him was scrappin’. Them
Guineas always carries knives. But you don’t understand,
Dempsey. I never had a fellow in my life. I got tired of comin’
with Anna and,Jimmy every night, so I fixed it with him to call
himself O’Sullivan, and brought him along. I knew there’d be
nothin’ doin’ for him if he came as a Dago. I guess I’ll resign from
the club now.'
Dempsey turned to Andy Geoghan.
‘Chuck that cheese slicer out of the window,’ he said, ‘and tell
‘em inside that Mr. O’Sullivan has had a telephone message to go
down to Tammany Hall.’
And then he turned back to Maggie.