O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    181 
'Johnsy, dear,’ said Sue, bending over her, ‘will you promise me
to keep your eyes closed, and not look out of the window until I
am done working? I must hand those drawings in by to-morrow. I
need the light or I would draw the shade down.’
‘Couldn’t you draw in the other room?’ asked Johnsy coldly.
‘I’d rather be here by you,’ said Sue. ‘Besides, I don’t want you
to keep looking at those silly ivy leaves.’
‘Tell me as soon as you have finished,’ said Johnsy, closing her
eyes, and lying white and still as a fallen statue, ‘because I want to
see the last one fall. I’m tired of waiting. I’m tired of thinking. I
want to turn loose my hold on everything, and go sailing down,
down, just like one of those poor, tired leaves.’
‘Try to sleep,’ said Sue. ‘I must call Behrman up to be my model
for the old hermit miner. I’ll not be gone a minute. Don’t try to
move till I come back.’
Old Behrman was a painter who lived on the ground floor
beneath them. He was past sixty and had a Michael Angelo’s Moses
beard curling down from the head of a satyr along the body of an
imp. Behrman was a failure in art. Forty years he had wielded the
brush without getting near enough to touch the hem of his Mis-
tress’s robe. He had been always about to paint a masterpiece, but
had never yet begun it. For several years he had painted nothing
except now and then a daub in the line of commerce or advertising.
He earned a little by serving as a model to those young artists in
the colony who could not pay the price of a professional. He drank
gin to excess, and still talked of his coming masterpiece. For the
rest he was a fierce little old man, who scoffed terribly at softness in
anyone, and who regarded himself as especial mastiff-in-waiting to
protect the two young artists in the studio above.
Sue found Behrman smelling strongly of juniper berries in his
dimly-lighted den below. In one corner was a blank canvas on an
easel that had been waiting there for twenty-five years to receive
the first line of the masterpiece. She told him of Johnsy’s fancy, and
how she feared she would, indeed, light and fragile as a leaf herself,
float away when her slight hold upon the world grew weaker.
Old Behrman, with his red eyes plainly streaming, shouted his
contempt and derision for such idiotic imaginings.
‘Vass!’ he cried. ‘Is dere people in de world mit der foolishness
to die because leafs dey drop off from a confounded vine? I haf not
heard of such a thing. No, I vill noc bose as a model for your fool
hermit-dunderheazd. Vy do you allow dot silly pusiness to come in
der prain of her? Ach, dot poor little Miss Yohnsy.’