290   O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
Office must be bughouse to send you out looking like such a gillie.
You couldn’t get within two blocks of a sidewalk crap game in
them Tony Pastor props. ‘The recent Mr. Scotty from Death
Valley has got you beat a crosstown block in the way of Eliza-
bethan scenery and mechanical accessories. Let it be skiddoo for
yours. Nay, I know of no gilded halls where one may bet a patrol
wagon on the ace.’
Rebuffed again by the great city that is so swift to detect artifi-
cialities, Haylocks sat upon the kerb and presented his thoughts to
hold a conference.
‘It’s my clothes,’ said he; ‘durned if it ain’t. They think I’m a
hayseed and won’t have nothin’ to do with me. Nobody never
made fun of this hat in Ulster County. I guess if you want folks to
notice you in New York you must dress up like they do.’
So Haylocks went shopping in the bazaars where men spake
through their noses and rubbed their hands and ran the tape line
ecstatically over the bulge in his inside pocket where reposed a red
nubbin of corn with an even number of rows. And messengers
bearing parcels and boxes streamed to his hotel on Broadway
within the lights of Long Acre.
At nine o’clock in the evening one descended to the sidewalk
whom Ulster County would have forsworn. Bright tan were his
shoes; his hat the latest block. His light grey trousers were deeply
creased; a gay blue silk handkerchief flapped from the breast
pocket of his elegant English walking-coat. His collar might have
graced a laundry window; his blond hair was trimmed close; the
wisp of hay was gone.
For an instant he stood, resplendent, with the leisurely air of a
boulevardier concocting in his mind the route for his evening
pleasures. And then he turned down the gay, bright street with the
easy and graceful tread of a millionaire.
But in the instant that he had paused the wisest and keenest eyes
in the city had enveloped him in their field of vision. A stout man
with grey eyes picked two of his friends with a lift of his eyebrows
from the row of loungers in front of the hotel.
‘The juiciest jay I’ve seen in six months,’ said the man with grey
eyes. ‘Come along.’
It was half-past eleven when a man galloped into the Vest
Forty-seventh Street police-station with the story of his wrongs.
Nine hundred and fifty dollars,’ he gasped, ‘all my share off
grandmother’s farm.’
The desk sergeant wrung from him the name Jabez Bulltongue,