38     O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
such as Bearoo, the bear, and Snakoo, the snake, and Tammanoo,
the tiger, talk in the jungle books. A yellow dog that’s spent most
of his life in a cheap New York flat, sleeping in a corner on an old
sateen underskirt (the one she spilled port wine on at the Lady
Longshoremen’s banquet), mustn’t be expected to perform any
tricks with the art of speech.
I was born a yellow pup; date, locality, pedigree and weight
unknown. The first thing I can recollect, an old woman had me in
a basket at Broadway and Twenty-third tying to sell me to a
far lady. Old Mother Hubbard was boosting me to beat the band
as a genuine Pomeranian-Hambletonian-Red-Irish-Cochin-China-
Stoke-Pogis fox terrier. The fat lady chased a V around among the
samples of gros grain flannelette in her shopping-bag till she cor-
nered it, and gave up. From that moment I was a pet - a mamma’s
own wootsey squidlums. Say, gentle reader, did you ever have
a 200-pound woman breathing a flavour of Camembert cheese
and Peau d’Espagne pick you up and wallop her nose all over
you, remarking all the time in an Emma Eames tone of voice:
‘Oh, oo’s um oodlum, doodlum, woodlum, toodlum, bitsy-witsy
skoodlums?’
From a pedigreed yellow pup I grew up to be an anonymous
yellow cur looking like a cross between an Angora cat and a box of
lemons. But my mistress never tumbled. She thought that the two
primeval pups that Noah chased into the ark were but a collateral
branch of my ancestors. It took two policemen to keep her from
entering me at the Madison Square Garden for the Siberian
bloodhound prize.
I’ll tell you about that flat. ‘The house was the ordinary thing
in New York, paved with Parian marble in the entrance hall and
cobblestones above the first floor. Our flat was three fl - Yell,
not flights - climbs up. My mistress rented it unfurnished, and
put in the regular things - 1903 antique upholstered parlour set,
oil chromo of geishas in a Harlem tea-house, rubber plant and
husband.
By Sirius! there was a biped I felt sorry for. He was a little man
with sandy hair and whiskers a good deal like mine. Hen-pecked?
- well, toucans and flamingoes and pelicans all had their bills in
him. He wiped the dishes and listened to y mistress tell about
the cheap, ragged things the lady with the squirrel-skin coat on
the second floor hung out on her line to dry. And every evening
while she was getting supper she made him take me out on the end
of a string for a walk.