24       O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
when I am with Clementina at the piano - he is a widower, you
know - and stands there pulling his white goatee. ‘And how are
the semiquavers and the demi-semiquavers progressing?” he
always asks.
‘I wish you could see the wainscoting in that drawing-room,
Joe! And those Astrakhan rug portieres. And Clementina has such a
funny little cough. I hope she is stronger than she looks. Oh, I
really am getting attached to her, she is so gentle and high bred.
General Pinkney’s brother was once Minister to Bolivia.’
And then,Joe, with the air of a Monte Cristo, drew forth a ten, a
five, a two and a one - all legal tender notes - and laid them beside
Delia’s earnings.
‘Sold that water-colour of the obelisk to a man from Peoria,’ he
announced overwhelmingly
‘Don’t joke with me,’ said Delia - ‘not from Peoria!’
‘All the way. I wish you could see him, Dele. Fat man with a
woollen muffler and a quill toothpick. He saw the sketch in
Tinkle’s window and thought it was a windmill at first. He was
game, though, and bought it anyhow. He ordered another - an oil
sketch of the Lackawanna freight depot - to take back with him.
Music lessons! Oh, I guess Art is still in it.’
‘I’m so glad you’ve kept on,’ said Delia heartily. ‘You’re bound
to win, dear. Thirty-three dollars! We never had so much to spend
before. We’ll have oysters to-night.’
‘And filet mignon with champignons,’ said Joe. ‘Where is the
olive fork?’
On the next Saturday evening Joe reached home first. He
spread his $18 on the parlour table and washed what seemed to be
a great deal of dark paint from his hands.
Half an hour later Delia arrived, her right hand tied up in a
shapeless bundle of wraps and bandages.
‘How is this?’ asked Joe after the usual greetings
Delia laughed, but nor very joyously
‘Clementina,’ she explained, ‘insisted upon a Welsh rabbit after
her lesson. She is such a queer girl. Welsh rabbits at five in the
afternoon. T’he General was there. You should have seen him run
for the chafing dish, Joe, just as if there wasn’t a servant in the
house. I know Clementina isn’t in good health; she is so nervous.
In serving the rabbit she spilled a great lot of it, boiling hot, over
my hand and wrist. It hurt awfully, Joe. And the dear girl was so
sorry! But General Pinkney! -Joe, that old man nearly went dis-
tracted. He rushed downstairs and sent somebody - they said the