300 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
‘Shall henceforth sit side by side,’ I concluded firmly.
‘Now, there’s another thing,’ said Mr. Bolder. ‘For an excipient
in manipulating a pill mass which do you prefer - the magnesia
carbonate or the pulverized glycerrhiza radix?’
‘The - er - magnesia,’ I said. It was easier to say than the other
word.
Mr. Bolder glanced at me distrustfully through his spectacles.
‘Give me the glycerrhiza,’ said he. ‘Magnesia cakes.’
‘Here’s another one of these fake aphasia cases,’ he said,
presently, handing me his newspaper, and laying his finger upon
an article. ‘I don’t believe in ’em. I put nine out of ten of ’em
down as frauds. A man gets sick of his business and his folks and
wants to have a good time. He skips out somewhere, and when
they find him he pretends to have lost his memory - don’t know
his own name, and won’t even recognize the strawberry mark on
his wife’s left shoulder. Aphasia! Tut! Why can’t they stay at home
and forget?’
I took the paper and read, after the pungent headlines, the fol-
lowing:
‘DENVER, June 12. - Elwyn C. Bellford, a prominent lawyer, is mysteri-
ously missing from his home since three days ago, and all efforts to locate him
have been in vain. Mr. Bellford is a well-known citizen of the highest stand-
ing, and has enjoyed a large and lucrative law practice. He is married and
owns a fine home and the most extensive private library in the State. On the
day of his disappearance, he drew quite a large sum of money from his bank.
No one can be found who saw him after he left the bank. Mr. Bellford was a
man of singularly quiet and domestic tastes, and seemed to find his happiness
in his home and profession. If any clue at all exists to his strange disappear-
ance, it may be found in the fact that for some months he had been deeply
absorbed in an important law ease in connection with the Q. Y. and Z. Rail-
road Company. It is feared that overwork may have affected his mind. Every
effort is being made to discover the whereabouts of the missing man.
‘It seems to me you are not altogether uncynical Mr. Holder,’ I
said, after I had read the despatch. ‘This has the sound, to me, of a
genuine ease. Why should this man, prosperous, happily married
and respected, choose suddenly to abandon everything? I know that
these lapses of memory do occur, and that men do find themselves
adrift without a name, a history or a home.’
‘Oh, gammon and jalap!’ said Mr. Bolder. ‘It’s larks they’re
after. There’s too much education nowadays. Men know about
aphasia, and they use it for an excuse. The women are wise, too.