304 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
be very proud of you. You knew, I suppose, that I married six
months after you did. You may have seen it in the papers. The
flowers alone cost two thousand dollars.’
She had mentioned fifteen years. Fifteen years is a long time.
‘Would it be too late,’ I asked somewhat timorously, ‘to offer
you congratulations?’
‘Not if you dare do it,’ she answered, with such fine intrepidity
that I was silent, and began to crease patterns on the cloth with my
thumb-nail.
‘Tell me one thing,’ she said, leaning toward me rather eagerly -
‘a thing I have wanted to know for many years - just from a
woman’s curiosity, of course - have you ever dared since that
night to touch, smell or look at white roses - at white roses wet
with rain and dew?’
I took a sip of crime de menthe.
‘It would be useless, I suppose,’ I said, with a sigh, ‘for me
to repeat that I have no recollection at all about these things.
My memory is completely at fault. I need not say how much I
regret it.’
The lady rested her arms upon the table, and again her eyes dis-
dained my words and went travelling by their own route direct to
my soul. She laughed softly, with a strange quality in the sound -
it was a laugh of happiness yes, and of content - and of misery. I
tried to look away from her.
‘You lie, Elwyn Bellford,’ she breathed blissfully. ‘Oh, I know
you lie!’
I gazed dully into the ferns.
‘My name is Edward Pinkhammer,’ I said. ‘I came with the del-
egates to the Druggists’ National Convention. There is a move-
ment on foot for arranging a new position for the bottles of
tartrate of antimony and tartrate of potash, in which, very likely,
you would take little interest.’
A shining landau stopped before the entrance. ‘The lady rose. I
took her hand, and bowed.
‘I am deeply sorry,’ I said to her, ‘that I cannot remember. I
could explain, but fear you would not understand. You will not
concede Pinkhammer; and I really cannot at all conceive of the -
the roses and other things.’
‘Good-bye, Mr. Bellford,’ she said, with her happy, sorrowful
smile, as she stepped into her carriage.
I attended the theatre that night. When I returned to my hotel,
a quiet man in dark clothes, who seemed interested in rubbing his