180 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
illustrate a magazine story. Young artists must pave their way to
Art by drawing pictures for magazine stories that young authors
write to pave their way to Literature.
As Sue was sketching a pair of elegant horseshow riding trousers
and a monocle on the figure of the hero, an Idaho cowboy, she
heard a low sound, several times repeated. She went quickly to the
bedside.
Johnsy’s eyes were open wide. She was looking out the window
and counting - counting backward.
‘Twelve,’ she said, and a little later, ‘eleven’; and then ‘ten,’ and
‘nine’; and then ‘eight’ and ‘seven,’ almost together.
Sue looked solicitously out the window. What was there to
count? There was only a bare, dreary yard to be seen, and the
blank side of the brick house twenty feet away. An old, old ivy
vine, gnarled and decayed at the roots, climbed half-way up the
brick wall. The cold breath of autumn had stricken its leaves from
the vine until its skeleton branches clung, almost bare, to tlre
crumbling bricks.
‘What is it, dear?’ asked Sue.
‘Six,’ said Johnsy, in almost a whisper. ‘They’re falling faster
now. Three days ago there were almost a hundred. It made my
head ache to count them. But now it’s easy. There goes another
one. There are only five left now.’
‘Five what, dear? Tell your Sudie.’
‘Leaves. On the ivy vine. When the last one falls I must go too.
I’ve known that for three days. Didn’t the doctor tell you?’
‘Oh, I never heard of such nonsense,’ complained Sue, with
magnificent scorn. ‘What have old ivy leaves to do with your get-
ting well? And you used to love that vine so, you naughty girl.
Don’t be a goosey. Why, the doctor told me this morning that
your chances for getting well real soon were - let’s see exactly
what he said - he said the chances were ten to one! Why, that’s
almost as good a chance as we have in New York when we ride on
the street-cars or walk past a new building. T’ry to take some broth
now, and let Sudie go back to her drawing, so she can sell the
editor man with it, and buy port wine for her sick child, and pork
chops for her greedy self.’
‘You needn’t get any more wine,’ said Johnsy, keeping her eyes
fixed out the window.
‘There goes another. No, I don’t want any broth. That leaves
just four. I want to see the last one fall before it gets dark. Then
I'll go too.’