O HENRY- 100 SELECTED STORIES   13
‘When’d ye see him last?’ asked old man Denny, with one eye
on the report of the Building Trades League.
‘Oh,’ wailed Mrs. Murphy,. ‘ ’twas yesterday, or maybe four
hours ago! I dunno. But it’s lost he is, me little boy Mike. He was
playin’ on the sidewalk only this mornin’ - or was it Wednesday?
I’m hat busy with work ’tis hard to keep up with dates. But I’ve
looked the house over from top to cellar, and it’s gone he is. Oh,
for the love av Hiven -’
Silent, grim, colossal, the big city has ever stood against its
revilers. They call it hard as iron; they say that no pulse of pity
beats in its bosom; they compare its streets with lonely forests and
deserts of lava. But beneath the hard crust of the lobster is found a
delectable and luscious food. Perhaps a different simile would have
been wiser. Still, nobody should take offence. We would call no
one a lobster without good and sufficient claws.
No calamity so touches the common heart of humanity as does
the staying of a little child. Their feet are so uncertain and feeble;
the ways are so steep and strange.
Major Griggs hurried down to the corner, and up the avenue
into Billy’s place. ‘Gimme a rye-high,’ he said to the servitor.
‘Haven’t seen a bow-legged, dirty-faced little devil of a six-year-
old lost kid around here anywhere, have you?’
Mr. Toomey retained Miss purdy’s hand on the steps. ‘Think of,
that dear little babe,’ said Miss Purdy, ‘lost from his mother’s side
- perhaps already fallen beneath the iron hoofs of galloping steeds
- oh, isn’t it dreadful?’
‘Ain’t that right?’ agreed Mr. Toomey, squeezing her hand. ‘Say
I start out and help look for um!’
‘Perhaps,’ said Miss Purdy, ‘you should. But oh, Mr. Toomey,
you are so dashing - so reckless - suppose in your enthusiasm
some accident should befall you, then what -’
Old man Denny read on about the arbitration agreement, with
one finger on the lines.
In the second floor front Mr. and Mrs. McCaskey came to the
window to recover their second wind. Mr. McCaskey was scoop-
ing turnips out of his vest with a crooked forefinger, and his lady
was wiping an eye that the salt of the roast pork lad not benefited.
They heard the outcry below, and thrust their heads out of the
Window.
‘Tis little Mike is lost,’ said Mrs. McCaskey in a hushed voice,
‘the beautiful, little. trouble-making angel of a gossoon!’
‘The bit of a boy mislaid?’ said Mr. McCaskey leaning out of