O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 337
The two experimenters in Art left the Square and hurried east-
ward and then to the south until they arrived in the Gramercy
neighbourhood. Within its high iron railings the little park had put
on its smart coat of vernal green, and was admiring itself in its foun-
tain mirror. Outside the railings the hollow square of crumbling
houses, shells of a bygone gentry, leaned as if in ghostly gossip over
the forgotten doings of the vanished quality. Sic transit gloria urbis.
A block or two north of the Park, Dawe steered the editor again
eastward, then, after covering a short distance, into a lofy but
narrow flathouse burdened with a floridly over-decorated facade.
To thefifthh story they toiled, and Dawe, panting, pushed his
latch-key into the door of one of the front flats.
When the door opened Editor Westbrook saw, with feelings of,
pity, how meanly and meagrely the rooms were furnished.
‘Get a chair, if you can find one,’ said Dawe, ‘while I hunt up
pen and ink. Hallo, what’s this? Here’s a note from Louise. She
must have left it there when she went out this morning.’
He picked up an envelope that lay on the centre-table and tore
it open. He began to read the letter that he drew out of it; and
once having begun it aloud he so read it through to the end.
These are the words that Editor Westbrook heard:
DEAR SHACKLEFORD, -
‘By the time you get this I will be about a hundred miles away
and still a-going. I’ve got a place in the chorus of the Occidental
Opera Co., and we start on the road to-day at twelve o'clock. I
didn’t want to starve to death, and so I decided to make my own
living. I’m not coming back. Mrs. Westbrook is going with me.
She said she was tired of living with a combination phonograph,
iceberg and dictionary, and she’s not coming back, either. We’ve
been practising the songs and dances for rwo months on the quiet.
I hope you will be successful, and get along all right. Good-bye.
'LOUISE.’
Dawe dropped the letter, covered his face with his trembling
hands, and cried out in a deep vibrating voice:
‘My God, why hast Thou given me this cup to drink? Since? she is
false. then let Thy Heaven’s fairest gifts faith and love, become the
jesting bywords of traitors and friends!’
Editor Westbrook’s glasses fell to the floor. The fingers of one
hand fumbled with a button on his coat as he blurted between his
pale lips: