316      0 HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
Azalea Adair seemed to reflect.
‘I have never thought of it that way,’ she said, with a kind of sin-
cere intensity that seemed to belong to her. ‘Isn’t it in the still,
quiet places that things do happen? I fancy that when God began,
to create the earth on the first Monday morning one could have
leaned out one’s windows and heard the drop of mud splashing
from His trowel as He built up the everlasting hills. What did the
noisiest project in the world - I mean the building of the tower of
Babel - result in finally? A page and a half of Esperanto in the
North American Review. ’
Of course,’ said I platitudinously, ‘human nature is the same
everywhere; but there is more colour - er - more drama and
movement and - er - romance in some cities than in others.’
‘On the surface,’ said Azalea Adair. ‘I have travelled many
times around the world in a golden airship wafted on two wings
- print and dreams. I have seen (on one of my imaginary tours)
the Sultan of Turkey bow-string with his own hands one of his
wives who had uncovered her face in public. I have seen a man in
Nashville tear up his theatre tickets because his wife was going
out with her face covered - with rice powder. II San Francisco’s
Chinatown I saw the slave girl Sing Yee dipped slowly, inch by
inch, in boiling almond oil to make her swear she would never
see her American lover again. She gave in when the boiling oil
had reached three inches above her knee. At a euchre party in
East Nashville the other night I saw Kitty Morgan cut dead by
seven of her schoolmates and lifelong friends because she had
married a house painter. The boiling oil was sizzling as high as
her hearty but I wish you could have seen the fine little smile that
she carried from table to table. Oh yes, it is a humdrum town.
Just a few miles of redbrick houses and mud and stores and
lumber yards.’
Someone knocked hollowly at the back of the house. Azalea
Adair breathed a soft apology and went to investigate the sound!
She came back in three minutes with brightened eyes, a faint flush
on her cheeks, and ten years lifted from her shoulders.
‘You must have a cup of tea before you go,’ she said, ‘and a
sugar cake.’
She reached and shook a little iron bell. In shuffled a small
negro girl about twelve, bare-foot, not very tidy, glowering at me
with thumb in mouth and bulging eyes.
Azalea Adair opened a tiny, worn purse and drew out a dollar
bill, a dollar bill with the upper right-hand corner missing, torn in