6 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
II
A Cosmopolite in a Cafe
AT MIDNIGHT THE CAFE was crowded. By some chance the little
table at which I sat had escaped the eye of incomers, and two
vacant chairs at it extended their arms with venal hospitality to the
influx of patrons.
And then a cosmopolite sat in one of them, and I was glad, for
I held a theory that since Adam no true citizen of the world has
existed. We hear of them, and we see foreign labels on much
luggage, but we find travellers instead of cosmopolites.
I invoke your consideration of the scene - the marble-topped
tables, the range of leather-upholstered wall seats, the gay com-
pany, the ladies dressed in demi-state toilets, speaking in an
exquisite visible chorus of taste, economy, opulence or art, the
sedulous and largess-loving garcons, the music wisely catering to all
with its raids upon the composers; the melange of talk and laughter
- and, if you will, the Wurzburger in the tall glass cones that bend
to your lips as ripe cherry sways on its branch tothee beak of a
robber jay. I was told by a sculptor fromMauchh Chunk that the
scene was truly Parisian.
My cosmopolite was named E. Rushmore Coglan, and he will
be heard from next summer at Coney Island. He is to establish a
new ‘attraction’ there, he informed me, offering kingly diversion.
And then his conversation rang along parallels of latitude and lon-
gitude. He took the great, round world in his hand, so to speak,
familiarly, contemptuously, and it seemed no larger than the seed
of a Maraschino cherry in a table-d’hote grape fruit. He spoke dis-
respeetfully of the equator, he skipped from continent to conti-
nent, he derided the zones, he mopped up the high seas with his
napkin. With a wave of his hand he would speak of a certain
bazaar in Hyderabad. Whiff! He would have you on skis in Lap-
land. Zip! Now you rode the breakers with the Kanakas at
Kealaikahiki. Presto! He dragged you through an Arkansas post-
oak swamp, let you dry for a moment on the alkali plains of his
Idaho ranch, then whirled you into the society of Viennese arch-
dukes. Anon he would be telling you of a cold he acquired in a
Chicago Iake breeze and how old Escamila cured it iu Buenos
Ayres with a hot infusion of the chuchula weed. You would have