O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES      301 
When it’s all over they look you in the eye, as scientific as you
please, and say: ‘He hypnotized me.” ’
Thus Mr. Bolder diverted, but did not aid me with his com-
ments and philosophy.
We arrived in New York about ten at night. I rode in a cab to
an hotel, and I wrote my name ‘Edward Pinkhammer’ in the regis-
ter. As I did so I felt pervade me a splendid, wild, intoxicating
buoyancy - a sense of unlimited freedom, of newly attained possi-
bilities. I was just horn into the world. The old fetters - whatever
they had been - were stricken from my hands and feet. The future
lay before me a clear road such as an infant enters, and I could set
out upon it equipped with a man’s learning and experience.
I thought the hotel clerk looked at me five seconds too long. I
had no baggage.
‘The Druggists’ Convention,’ I said. ‘My trunk has somehow
failed to arrive.’ I drew out a roll of money.
‘Ah!’ said he, showing an auriferous tooth, ‘we have quite a
number of the Western delegates stopping here.’ He struck a bell
for the boy.
I endeavoured to give colour to my role.
‘There is an important movement on foot among us Western-
ers.’ I said, ‘in regard to a recommendation to the convention that
the bottles containing the tartrate of antimony and potash, and the
tartrate of sodium and potash, be kept in a contiguous position on
the shelf.’
‘Gentleman to three-fourteen,’ said the clerk hastily. I was
whisked away to my room.
The next day I bought a trunk and clothing, and began to live
the life of Edward Pinkhammer. I did not tax my brain with
endeavours to solve problems of the past.
It was a piquant and sparkling cup that the great island city held
up to my lips. I drank of it gratefully. The keys of Manhattan
belong to him who is able to bear them. You must be either tho
city’s guest or its victim.
The following few days were as gold and silver. Edward
Pinkhammer, yet counting back to his birth by hours only, knew
the rare joy of having come upon so diverting a world full-fledged
and unrestrained. I sat entranced on the magic carpets provided in
theatres and roof-gardens, that transported one into strange and
delightful lands full of frolicsome music, pretty girls and
grotesque, drolly extravagant parodies upon humankind. I went
here and there at my own dear will, bound by no limits of space,