40     O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
but he always came home cheerful and whistling. One day I
touched noses with the black-and-tan in the hall, and I struck him
For an elucidation.
‘See, here, Wiggle-and-Skip,’ I says, ‘you know that it ain’t the
nature of a real man to play dry-nurse to a dog in public. I never
saw one leashed to a bow-wow yet that didn’t look like he’d like to
lick every other man that looked at him. But your boss comes in
every day as perky and set up as an amateur prestidigitator doing
the egg trick. How does he do it? Don’t tell me he likes it.’
‘Him?’ says the black-and-tan. ‘Why, he uses Nature’s Own
Remedy. He gets spifflicated. At first when we go out he’s as shy
as the man on the steamer who would rather play pedro when they
make ’em all jackpots. By the time we’ve been in eight saloons he
don’t care whether the thing on the end of his line is a dog or a
catfish. I’ve lost two inches of my tail trying to sidestep those
swinging doors.’
The pointer I got from that terrier - vaudeville please copy - set
me to thinking.
One evening about six o’clock my mistress ordered him to get
busy and do the ozone act for Lovey. I have concealed it until
now, but that is what she called me. The black-and-tan was called
‘Tweetness.’ I consider that I have the bulge on him as far as you
could chase a rabbit. Still ‘Lovey’ is something of a nomenclatural
tin-can on the tail of one’s self-respect.
Ar a quiet place on a safe street I tightened the line of my custo-
dian in front of an attractive, refined saloon. I made a dead-ahead
scramble for the doors, whining like a dog in the press despatches
that lets the family know that little Alice is bogged while gathering
lilies in the brook.
‘Why, darn my eyes,’ says the old man, with a grin? ‘darn my
eyes if the saffron-coloured son of a seltzer lemonade ain’t asking
me in to take a drink. Lemme see - how long’s it been since I saved
shoe leather by keeping one foot on the footrest? I believe I’ll -
I knew I had him. Hot Scotches he took, sitting at a table. For
an hour he kept the Campbells coming. I sat by his side rapping
for the waiter with my tail, and eating free lunch such as mamma
in her flat never equalled with her homemade truck bought at a
delicatessen store eight minutes before papa comes home.
When the products of Scotland were all exhausted except the
rye bread the old man unwound me from the table leg and played
me outside like a fisherman plays a salmon. Out there he took off,
my collar and threw it into the street.