334 O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 
unarrived fictionist to dictate words to be uttered by the heroes and
heroines of the Minerva Magazine, contrary to the theories of the
editor thereof.
‘My dear Shack,’ said he, ‘if I know anything of life I know that
every sudden, deep and tragic emotion in the human heart calls
forth an apposite, concordant, conformable, and proportionate
expression of feeling? How much of this inevitable accord between
expression and feeling should be attributed to nature, and how
much to the influence of art, it would be difficult to say. The sub-
limely terrible roar of the lioness that has been deprived of her
cubs is dramatically as far above her customary whine and purr as
the kingly and transcendent utterances of Lear are above the level
of his senile vapourings. But it is also true that all men and women
have what may be called a subconscious dramatic sense that is
awakened by a sufficiently deep and powerful emotion - a sense
unconsciously acquired from literature and the stage that prompts
them to express those emotions in language befitting their impor-
tance and histrionic value.’
And in the name of seven sacred saddle-blankets of Sagittarius,
where did the stage and literature get the stunt?’ asked Dawe.
‘From life,’ answered the editor triumphantly.
The story-writer rose from the bench and gesticulated elo-
quently but dumbly. He was beggared for words with which to
formulate adequately his dissent.
On a bench near by a frowsy loafer opened his rel eyes and
perceived that his moral support was due to a down-trodden
brother.
‘Punch him one, Jack,’ he called hoarsely to Dawe. ‘W’at’s he
come makin’ a noise like a penny arcade for amongst gen’lemen
that comes in the Square to set and think?’
Editor Westbrook looked at his watch with an affected show of
leisure.
‘Tell me,’ asked Dawe, with truculent anxiety, ‘what especial
faults in ‘The Alarum of the Soul” caused you to throw it down.’
‘When Gabriel Murray,’ said Westbrook, ‘goes to his telephone
and is told that his fiancee has been shot by a burglar, he says - I
do not recall the exact words, but -
‘I do,’ said Dawe. ‘He says: "Damn Central; she always cuts me
off."( And then to his friend): "Say, Tommy, does a thirty-two
bullet make a big hole? It’s kind of hard luck, ain’t it? Could you
get me a drink from the sideboard, Tommy? No; straight; nothing
on the side.” ’