14       O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES
the window. ‘Why, now, that’s bad enough, entirely. The childer,
they be different. If ’twas a woman I’d be willin’, for they leave
peace behind ‘em when they go.’
Disregarding the thrust, Mrs. McCaskey caught her husband’s
arm
Jawn,’ she said sentimentally, ‘Missis Murphy’s little bye is lost.
‘Tis a great city for losing little boys. Six years old he was. Jawn,
‘tis the same age our little bye would have been if we had had one
six years ago.’
‘e never did,’ said Mr. McCaskey, lingering with the fact.
‘But if we had, Jawn, think what sorrow would be in our hearts
this night, with our little Phelan run away and stolen in the city
nowheres at all.’
‘Ye talk foolishness,’ said Mr. McCaskey. ‘ ‘Tis Pat he would be
named, after me old father in Cantrim.’
‘Ye lie!’ said Mrs. McCaskey, without anger. ‘Me brother was
worth tin dozen bog-trotting McCaskeys. After him would the bye
be named.’ She Ieaned over the window-sill and looked down at
the hurrying and bustle below.
Jawn,’ said Mrs. McCaskey softly, ‘I’m sorry I was hasty wid
ye.’
‘Twas hasty puddin’, as ye say,’ said her husband, ‘and hurry-
up turnips and get-a-move-on-ye coffee. ’Twas what ye could call
a quick lunch, all right, and tell no lie.’
Mrs. McCaskey slipped her arm inside her husband’s and took
his rough hand in hers.
‘Listen at the cryin’ of poor Mrs. Murphy,’ she said. ‘‘Tis an
awful thing for a bit of a bye to be lost in this great big city. If
‘twas our little Phelan, Jawn, I’d be breakin’ me heart.’
Awkwardly Mr. McCaskey withdrew his hand. But he laid it
around the nearing shoulders of his wife!
‘Tis foolishness, of course,’ said he, roughly, ‘but I’d be cut up
some meself, if our little - Par was kidnapped or anything. But
there never was any childer for us. Sometimes I’ve been ugly and
hard with ye, Judy. Forget it.’
‘They leaned together, and looked down at the heart-drama
being acted below. 
Long they sat thus. People surged along the sidewalk, crowding,
questioning, filling the air with rumours and inconsequent sur-
mises. Mrs. Murphy ploughed back and forth in their midst, like a
soft mountain down which plunged an audible cataract of tears.
Couriers came and went.