32   O HENRY -100 SELECTED STORIES
‘Say, Mag,’ he said, ‘I’ll see you home. And how about next Sat-
urday night? V’ill you come to the hop with me if I call around for
you?’
It was remarkable how quickly Maggie’s eyes could change from
dull to a shining brown.
‘With you, Dempsey?’ she stammered. ‘Say - will a duck swim?’
VII
The Cap and the Antbem
ON HIS BENCH IN MADISON SQUARE Soapy moved uneasily. When
wild goose honk high of nights, and when women without sealskin
coats grow kind to their husbands, and when Soapy moves
uneasily on his bench in the park, you may know that winter is
near at hand.’
A dead leaf fell in Soapy’s lap. That was Jack Frost s card. Jack is
ind to the regular denizens of Madison Square, and gives fair
warning of his annual call. At the corners of four streets he hands
his pasteboard to the North Wind, footman of he mansion of All
Outdoors, so that the inhabitants thereof may make ready.
Soapy’s mind became cognizant of the fact that the time had
come for him to resolve himself into a singular Committee of Ways
and Means to provide against the coming rigour. And therefore he
moved uneasily on his bench.
The hibernatorial ambitions of Soapy were not of the highest.
In them were no considerations of Mediterranean cruises, of
soporific Southern skies or drifting in the Vesuvian Hay. Three
months on the Island was what his soul craved. ‘Three months of
assured board and bed and congenial company, safe from Boreas
and bluecoats, seemed to Soapy the essence of things desirable.
For years the hospitable Blackwell’s had been his winter quar-
ters. Just as his more fortunate fellow New Yorkers had bought
their tickets to Palm Beach and the Riviera each winter, so Soapy
had made his humble arrangements for his annual hegira to the
Island. And now the time was come. On the previous night three
Sabbath newspapers, distributed beneath his coat, about his ankles
and over his lap, had failed to repulse the cold as he slept on his
bench near the spurting fountain in the ancient square. So the
Island loomed large and timely in Soapy’s mind. He scorned the
provisions made in the name of charity for the city’s dependents.