O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES       179 
art, chicory salad and bishop sleeves so congenial that the joint
studio resulted.
That was in May. In November a cold, unseen stranger, whom
the doctors called Pneumonia, stalked about the colony, touching
one here and there with his icy finger. Over on the East Side this
ravager strode boldly, smiting his victims by scores, but his feet
trod slowly through the maze of the narrow and moss-grown
'places.’
Mr. Pneumonia was not what you would call a chivalric old gen-
tleman. A mite of a little woman with blood thinned by Californ-
ian zephyrs was hardly fair game for the red-fisted, short-breathed
old duffer. But Johnsy he smote; and she lay, scarcely moving, on
her painted iron bedstead, looking through the small Dutch
window-panes at the blank side of the next brick house.
One morning the busy doctor invited Sue into the hallway with
a shaggy, grey eyebrow.
‘She has one chance in - let us say, ten,’ he said, as he shook
down the mercury in his clinical thermometer. ‘And that chance is
for her to want to live. ’This way people have of lining-up on the
side of the undertaker makes the entire pharmacopoeia look silly.
Your little lady has made up her mind that she’s not going to get
well. Has she anything on her mind?’
‘She - she wanted to paint the Bay of Naples some day,’ said
Sue.
‘Paint? - bosh! Has she anything on her mind worth thinking
about twice - a man, for instance?'
‘A man?’ said Sue, with a jews’-harp twang in her voice. ‘Is a
man worth - but, no, doctor; there is nothing of the kind.’
‘Well, it is the weakness, then,’ said the doctor. ‘I will don all that
science, so far as it may filter through my efforts, can accomplish
But whenever my patient begins to count the carriages in her
funeral procession I subtract 50 per cent from the curative power
of medicines. If you will get her to ask one question about the new
winter styles in cloak sleeves I will promise you a one-in five
chance for her, instead of one in ten.'
After the doctor had gone, Sue went into the workroom and
cried a ,Japanese napkin to a pulp. ‘l’hen she swaggered into
Johnsy room with her drawing-board, whistling ragtime.
Johnsy lay, scarcely making a ripple under the bedclothes, with
her face toward the window. Sue stopped whistling, thinking she
was asleep.
She arranged her hoard and began a pen-and-ink drawing to