O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES 41
‘Poor doggie,’ says he? ‘good doggie. She shan’t kiss you any
more. ’S a darned shame. Good doggie, go away and get run over
by a street car and be happy.’
I refused to leave. I leaped and frisked around the old man’s legs
happy as a pug on a rug.
‘You old flea-headed woodchuck-chaser,’ I said to him - ‘you
moon-baying, rabbit-pointing, egg-stealing old beagle, can't you
see that I don’t want to leave you? Can’t you see that we’re both
Pups in the Wood and the missis is the cruel uncle after you with
the dish towel and me with the flea liniment and a pink bow to tie
on my tail. Why not cut that all out and be pards for evermore?'
Maybe you’ll say he didn’t understand - maybe he didn’t. But
he kind of got a grip on the Hot Scotches, and stood still for a
minute, thinking.
‘Doggie,’ says he finally, ‘we don’t live more than a dozen lives
on this earth, and very few of us live to be more than 300. If I ever
see that flat any more I’m a flat, and if you do you’re flatter; and
that’s no flattery. I’m offering 60 to 1 that Westward Ho wins out
by the length of a dachshund.’
There was no string, but I frolicked along with my master to the
Twenty-third Street ferry. And the cats on the route saw reason to
give thanks that prehensile claws had been given them.
On the Jersey side my master said to a stranger who stood
eating a currant bun:
‘Me and my doggie, we are bound for the Rocky Mountains.’
But what pleased me most was when my old man pulled both of
my ears until I howled, and said:
‘You common, monkey-headed, rat-tailed, sulphur -coloured
ton of a door-mat, do you know what I’m going to call you?’
I thought of ‘Lovey,’ and I whined dolefully.
‘I’m going to call you "Pete,’’ ’ says my master; and if I’d had
five tails I couldn't have done enough wagging to do justice to the
occasion.
IX
The Love-philtre? of Ikey Schoenstein
THE BLUE LiGHT DRUG STORE is down-town, between the Bowery
and First Avenue, where the distance between the two streets is the
shortest. The Blue Light does not consider that pharmacy is a thing