O HENRY - 100 SELECTED STORIES    289
‘Divvy? Mike,’ said the men hanging upon the bar, winking
openly at one another.
‘Honest, now,’ said the bartender, kicking the valise to one side.
‘You don’t think I’d fall to that, do you? Anybody can see he ain’t
no jay. One of McAdoo’s come-on squad, I guess. He’s a shine if
he made himself up. There ain’t no parts of the country now
where they dress like that since they run rural free delivery to
Providence, Rhode Island. If he’s got nine-fifty in that valise it’s a
ninety-eight-cent Waterbury that’s stopped at ten minutes to ten.’
When Haylocks had exhausted the resources of Mr. Edison to
amuse he returned for his valise. And then down Broadway he gal-
livanted, culling the sights with his eager blue eyes. but still and
evermore Broadway rejected him with curt glances and sardonic
smiles. He was the oldest of the ‘gags’ that the city must endure.
He was so flagrantly impossible, so ultra-rustic, so exaggerated
beyond the most freakish products of the barnyard, the hayfield
and the vaudeville stage, that he excited only weariness and suspi-
cion. And the wisp of hay in his hair was so genuine, so fresh and
redolent of the meadows, so clamorously rural, that even a shell-
game man would have put up his peas and folded his table at the
sight of it.
Haylocks seated himself upon a flight of stone steps and once
more exhumed his roll of yellow-backs from the valise. The outer
one, a twenty, he shucked off and beckoned to a newsboy.
‘Son,’ said he, ‘run somewhere and get this changed for me. I’m
mighty nigh our of chicken feed; I guess you’ll get a nickel if you’ll
hurry up.’
A hurt look appeared through the dirt on the newsy’s face.
‘Aw, watchert’ink! G’wan and get yer funny bill changed yerself
Dey ain’t no farm clothes yer got on. G’wan wit yer stage money.’
On a corner lounged a keen-eyed steerer for a gambling-
house. He saw Haylocks, and his expression suddenly grew cold
and virtuous.
‘Mister,’ said the rural one. ‘I’ve heard of places in this here
town where a fellow could have a good game of old sledge or peg a
card at keno. I got S9S0 in this valise, and I come down from old
Ulster to see the sights. Know where a fellow could get action on
about $9 or $10? I’m goin’ to have some sport, and then maybe I’ll
buy out a business of some kind.
The steerer looked pained, and investigated a white speck on his
left forefinger nail.
‘Cheese it, old man,’ he murmured reproachfully. ‘The Central