                                     11
  The history of the people is curiogs. They inhabit or
 rather possess the Country Iying south of the hills of
 &lsquo;Tibbet from Caubul to China. They go mostly naked.
 they have neither towns, houses, nor families ; but rove
 continually from place to place recruiting their number
 with the healthiest children they can steal in the countries
 through which they pass. Thus they are the stoutest and
 the most active men in India. Many are merchants. They
 are all pilgrims and held by all castes of Gentoos in great
 veneration. This intatuat ion prevents ogr obtaining any
 intelligence of their motions or aid from the country
 against them, notwithstanding very rigid orders which
 have been published for these purposes, in so much that
 they often appear in the heart of the province as it they
 dropt from heaven. They are hardy, bold and enthus-
 lastic to a degree surpassing credit. Such are the
 Sannyassis, the Gipsies of Hindustan.
 We have dissolved all the purgunah Sepoys and
 Fixed stations of the brigade Sepoys on our frontiers,
 which are to be employed only in the defence of the
 provinces, and to be relieved every three months. This
 I hope will secure the peace of the country against future
 irruptions, and as they are no longer to be employed in
 the collections, the people will be freed from the oppres-
 sions of our own plunderers. Hastings to Josias Du
 Pre,&mdash;9th March, 1775.
 We have lately been much troubled here by hordes
 of desperate adventurers called Sannyasis, who have
 overrun thc province in great numbers and committed
 great depredations. The particulars of these disturbances
 and of our endeavours to repel them you will find in our
 general letters and consultations, which will acquit the
 Government of any degree of blame from such a
 calamity. At this time we have hve battalions of Sepoys
 in pursuit of them, and I have still hopes of exacting
 ample vengeance for the mischief they have done us, as
 they have no advantage over us but in the speed with