                                          III
 which they fly from us. A minute relation of these
 adventures can not amuse you, nor indeed are they of
 great moment, for which reason give me leave to drop
 the subject, and lead you to one in which you can not
 but be most interested, &amp;c. Hastings to Purling&mdash;dated
 31st March-1775-para 1 Gleig's Memories of Hastings
 In my last I mentioned that we had every reason to
 suppose the Sannyasi Fakeers had entire&rsquo;y evacuated
 the Company&rsquo;s possesions. Such were the advices I then
 received, and their usual progess made this highly pro-
 bable. But it seems they were either disappointed in
 crossing the Burramputrah river, or they changed their
 intention, and returned in several bands of about 2000
 or 3000 each, appearing unexpectedly in different parts
 of the Rungpoor and Dinagepoor province. For in spite
 of the strictest orders issued and the severest penalties
 threatened to the inhabitants in case they fail in giving
 intelligence of the approach of the Sannyasies, they are
 so infatuated by superstition as to be backward in giving
 the information so that the banditti are sometimes
 advanced into the very heart of provinces before we
 know anything of their motions ; as if they dropt from
 heaven to punish the inhabitants for their folly. One of
 these parties falling in with a small detachment com-
 manded by Captain Edwardes, an engagement ensued
 wherein our Sepoys gave way. Captain Edwardes lost
 his life in endeavouring to cross a Nullah. This detach-
 ment was formed of the worst of our pergauna Sepoys,
 who seemed to have behaved very ill. This success elated
 the Sannyasies, and I heard of their depredations from
 every quarter in those districts. Captain Stewart, with
 the nineteenth battalion of Sepoys, who was before
 employed against them, was vigilant in the pursuit
 wherever he could hear of them, but to no purpose. They
 were gone before he could reach the place to which he
 was directed. I ordered another battalion from Burram-