of Keio, Kyoto University, University of Osaka and Unrversity of Sendai have advanced robotics
programmes which you can pursue at the undergraduate or postgraduate level. The Waseda University
in Japan has a very advanced centre for Humanoid Robotics. In China, too, the study of robotics is
advancing rapidly, and we saw the robotics lab of Peking University in Beijing in 2014, where
scientists have developed artificial robotic limbs and are working on brain-machine connections,
Robotic engineer s are hard-working people. They require immense concentration and rigour. Hence;
it is important that you cultivate healthy habits while you are young, including a good diet which helps
develop your focus and attention. It is proven scientifically that leafy, green vegetables help improve
concentration. In fact, a 2006 study in neurology showed that people who ate two or more daily
servings of vegetables, especially leafy greens, had much better mental focus.
MEET THE EXPERT:PROFESSOR SETHU
VIJAYAKUMARFRSE
Professor of Robotics and Director, Edinburgh Centre for Robotics
School of Informatics,University of Edinburgh, UK
Royal Academy of Engineering,Microsoft Research Chairun Robotics
Q.can you brifly tell us about your childhood and education?
I was born in India, in my native state of kerala and grew up in a middle-class family. My father was
an engineer with the lndian government As a result,during my childhood, I moved around the length
and breadth of the country Growing up went to five different schools,starting with my nursery in
Neyveli,Tamil Nadu,primary education in kolkata and finishing my middle and high school at the
Delhi Public school. Rk Puram in New Delhi. It is perhaps apt to say that I was a true product of the
diversity and uniqueness'of this great country-picking up four different Indian languages on the
way 
I went on to do my undergraduate education in computer science and engineering at the Regional
Engineering College in Trichy, India, graduating as the top student of the batch (and winning the
RECAL. Award) before accepting a Japanese government &lsquo; monbusho&rsquo; scholarship to pursue
postgraduate studies in the Mecca of robotics, Japan. I completed my master&rsquo;s and PhD In computer
science, during which I started working on advanced robots and applying techniques from machine
learning (computer science) to the field of robot control, a field that I pioneered with my
collaborators and for which I won the IEEEICNN Best Student Paper Award in l 995, my first taste
of international recognition. I visited several renowned international institutions as a student, one of
the most memorable being the five-week summer school at the Issac Newton Institute in Cambridge,
UK, where I listened to lectures from world experts in venues where legendary scientists of the