devices that minimize your energy costs. It is expected that within the next seven or eight
years, all basic household chores will be performed by robots. Driverless cars, which are
mapped to the central traffic network, will replace conventional vehicles. These cars will
automatically choose the most fuel-efficient gears and the least time-consuming routes-
without ever breaking traffic rules
Disaster relief robots: In the near future, perhaps within the next five years,robots will play
the most significant role in providing relief to people affected by calamities such as floods,
earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, hurricanes and even terrorism. Let us take the example of the
prototype of the SCHAFT robot, an award-winning robot presented by Google at the 2Ol 3
DARPA Robotics Challenge, which was organized by the US Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency (DARPA). (You can see the SCHAFT robot in the image section.)A human-
like robot called S-One could perform several autonomous tasks, it was able to navigate
disaster-prone areas and work with any tools or materials at hand. With the strength of ten
full-grown people, the robot could lift and clear heavy debris during rescue operations. The
robot has long arms and a squat torso,weighs over 85 kg,is 4'10" call and is capable of
moving at a speed of two kilometres an hour. s-One has mastered skills such as operating
drills, manipulating safety valves and turning a doorknob,a rare knack in robots. Imagine how
quickly such a team of schafts could rescue people trapped in earthquakes or major fires!
6. Outer space robots: Outer space is an unexplored): dangerous,radiation-prone area, posing
unknown threats to humans.Even when humans are sent into space,they carry with them an
elaborate life-support system,including oxygen and food,which limits the amount of time they
can spend in space.with none of the wants and vulnerabilities that human have,intelligent
robots can be sent to outer space with little risk.space agencies such as NASA and ISRC
have, of course, their fair share incredible robots. The one that really stands out is the Mars
Pathfinder mission and its rover sojourner.The main purpose of this mission was to
demonstrate the kind of technology required to send an efficient,free-ranging robot to Mars in
a relatively cost-effective way. The Pathfinder managed to enter Mars&rsquo;s atmosphere with a
parachute and airbags for protection,and the Sojourner sent plenty of useful data about the
red planet back to Earth. Now India has successfully managed to send Mangalyaan to plant
its own robot on Mars
CONVERSATIONS WITH A SCIENCE TEACHER
How much does a robot cost?
Robots can vary in cost depending on their size, functions and many other parameters. Typically, a
robot with the ability to sense and react is costlier than those that cannot. Robotic arms, typically used
in industrial application, cost between Rs 25 lakhs to one crore. The space application robot