How long have humans been toying with the idea of robots?
Robots and robotic creatures have been the subject of human imagination for ages and have inspired
many stories and films. Sadly. except for some rare works of fiction. robots have always been
depicted as evil or useful machines that have turned violent. leading to conflict between humans and
their own creations. In Greek mythology.Hephaestus. the god of blacksmiths. invented three-legged
tables that could move about on their own.He also created a giant bronze man called Talos who
defended the famous island of crete in Greece.Interestingly,Talos was eventually destroyed by the
elever princess Medea,who cast a lightning belt at his single vein of lead,thereby destroying what
was essentially his primary electrical circuit.
There are references to robots in India mythology as well.The eleventh-century Lokapannatti tells
The story of king Ajatashatru of Magadha (patna).who gathered the Buddha's relics and hid them in
an underground stupa.The relies were protected by mechanical robots called'bhuta vahana yantra
until they were disarmed by king Ashoka,another Magadha king.Are these stories true?very
perform various tasks.
The Future of Robotics
1.Military and defence:Unmanned air vehicle or UAV are fast replacing conventional
aircraft especially for surveillance A typical UAV such as predator used extensively by
the Americans during the Afghan War can fly up to 1500 km consuming about 400kg of fuel
compared to a fighter aircraft which would consume about 3000 kg for the same trip such
vehicles can have civilian user too you must have read about Amazon's plans to have
'octocopters' deliver packages to their customers' doorsteps
2.Industrial application:Robots are being used widely in industry,where a high degree of
precision and accuracy is important.This includes fixing joint,assembling complex circuits,
riveting and detecting flaws in finished pieces As professor sethu showed us robots are also
very useful in working in high-risk areas,including mines,high-temperature zones,radiation-
prone areas and places infected by bacteria or viruses.
3.Health care:There are two major application of robots in health care.First,robotics will
transform the way surgeries are done.we have come a long way from the early 1980s when
the world's first surgical robot was used.Today,long,comlicated surgeries requiring
absolute precision can be done using robotic arms-especially in sensitive areas such as the
eye,brain and heart second,robotics is going to bring about major improvements in
prosthetic limbs.we are looking at a future where robotic prosthetics will replace damaged
limbs or even organs.
4.Consumer and home-use robots:Robotics is making houses smart,intelligent home gadgets
are now a reality.from cameras that help you keep an eye on your house from any where to