Q. Which is your favourite robot and what does it do?
My favourite robot is the humanoid robot Valkyrie, created by NASH. This robot was based on the
Robonaut 2, which was designed to work in space. Valkyrie, on the other hand, Is a robot built to
work in environments that humans are used to on land. It has forty -four joints or degrees of freedom
and is bipedal, meaning It walks on two legs unlike some robots that have wheels or chain tracks.
Controlling such a complex but versatile robot is an exciting challenge that my group of researchers
and I are involved in. The robot was specifically designed for the DARPA Robotics Challenge
DRC) where robots were supposed to carry out a sequence of tasks such as walking over rubble or
debris, opening doors, turning valves, climbing stairs, operating a power tool and getting Into a 4X4
golf cart and navigating. The aim of the exercise was to develop robots that can autonomously (l.e.,
without human intervention) explore a natural disaster area like earthquake scenes or fire accidents
and perform operations that a rescue worker would normally carry out. The larger object is to reduce
the tasks humans have to carry out in dangerous and potentially life-threatening scenarios. The robot
is nearly l 65 metres tall, weighs around l 50 kg and has many sensors like camera. laser-range
scanner and touch sensors.It joints are moved by compact yet powerful electric motors and it has a
large lithirum-ion battery for power.It has several multicore computers on board to process the
information and make decisions about what to do next and which motors to move appropriately
Although valkyrie is a tremendously expensive robot approximately $2.5 million dollars),I expect
such robots to become very commonplace and much cheaper in ten to fifteen years due to he
tremendous advances science is making.
NOTE To PARENTS
Robotics is one of the most innovative branches of science and technology. If you child wants to
pursue a career in it. he or she can choose a career in industrial applications such as in automobile
companies,consumer durables, machine-making organization and even space-application
organizations. Modern-day robots are constructed by highly professional organzations, and these are
gradually developing in India also
It is expected that in the not-so-distant future most regular factory work will be performed by robots
who will be manned by workers. This would mean great opportunities for both robot designers and
robot-maintenance scientists in such organizations. There are a large number of robotic engineers
working in huge organizations such as Hindustan Aeronautical Limited, Bharat Heavy Electricals
Limited, NASA, Boeing, Airbus, Ferran Siemens and other leading companies across the industry.
Another great opportunity for robotic engineering is in the field of academics and teaching. Leading
universities in India and abroad are opening centres for robotic research, which are a point of
convergence of multiple sciences.