yesteryears, like Darwin, Newton and Turing, as well as current world leaders like Stephen Hawkins
plied their art. My first postdoctoral Job w as at the RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Japan, where
scientists were trying to understand the functioning of the human brain at various levels. After that, I
moved to Los Angeles, USA, to work as a faculty member at the University of Southern California in
2000 and since the end of 2003, I have been on the faculty at the University of Edinburgh, UK.
Edinburgh University was established in 1583 and is the alma mater of many famous scientists like
James Clerk Maxwell, Joseph Lister, Alexander Graham Bell and Peter Higgs of the Higgs-Boson
fame. I would say that even after so many years in academia, I have never stopped learning, and the
more I know, the more I find out about what I do not know yet.
Q. What exactly do you do?
I am a professor of robotics at the University of Edinburgh and the director of the Edinburgh Centre
for Robotics. I am an applied mathematician, computer scientist and roboticist by training. I design
and build robots that try mine the capabilities of human beings.I use my knowledge of computer
programming and electronics to develop algorithms to control highly complex, humanoid robots
Many of the robots that I work with have a human shape,so that eventually they can coexist in a space
inhabited by humans without having to adapt to our surroundings Our research focuses on there
aspects.First,we aim to make robots as safe and reliable as possible so that they can assist humans
as co-workers with difficult,dangerous and cumbersome tasks.Examples of areas of application
include factory automation and construction,deep sea oil and gas extraction as well as nuclear power
plants. second, we want to develop autonomous yens technology to make our lives easier and give
us more time to enjoy with family and friends.Examples include self-driving cars and robot
technology that can help around the house,such as autonomous vacuum cleaners and lawn mowers
Finally,I work with doctors and surgeons to develop prosthetic,a kind of robot that is used by
patients who have had accidents and suffered injuries or lost limbs.By understanding the human
body works, we are able to restore some capability using robotic hardware.We develop artificial
limbs for bath the lower arm as well as legs. Our work also applies to situations where robots that
can crawl or fly may be required to assist during a fire or in natural disasters like tsunamis or
earthquakes to search for and rescue trapped people.
Q. What inspired you to take up the field of robotics?
Since my childhood, I was fascinated by machines or automatic mechanical devices. I have memories
of playing with spring-wound mechanical toys, getting lost in the bazaars of Delhi, staring at printing
machines and lathes at roadside factories as well as reading science fiction by authors such as Issac
Asimov. It was this natural fascination for everything moving and the innate curiosity to understand
what goes inside the box that provided me with the first inspiration towards robotics. After an
undergraduate degree in computer engineering, I was curious to see how I could apply developments
in the field of computers to make smarter robots. I was also fascinated by the human body itself-it is
an incredibly versatile, multipurpose machine invented by nature. Since I was not a medical doctor or!