problems? Yes, definitely. Scientists have spent decades examining these natural processes  and then
translated them into machine actions, which are then embedded into robots-and lo and behold, we
have bio-inspired robots
How can I be a robot scientist or a &lsquo;robo-engineer'?
Robotics is a multidimensional application science. This means a robotic team can have scientists
from many different streams, including mechanics (the study of motion and moving parts), electronics
and electrical engineering (for all the circuit work) and computer science (for building the software
which runs the robot). Biology and medicine experts are needed in the teams which build robots for
medical applications.
If you wish to be a robotic engineer, the best course of action would be to excel in science and maths
Remember, a robotic engineer needs to be outstanding in physics, including mechanics and electrical
circuits study computer science and programming thoroughly, go beyond textbooks and read
how computer programmes can be built to solve real-life problems you should surf the Internet and
start reading more on the latest robots being built around the world and about the latest trends in
artifiartificial intelligence. Facebook has a number of Good robotic communities join them and take active
part in online discussions Share your thoughts and opinious with confidence. Who knows, some
well-known roboticists may be thee listening to your ideas. Find out who the leading robotic
engineers from around the world are. Mail them your questions All the robotic engineers I know love
to interact with people and understand their views
Later, after your Class XII, you can, opt for mechanical, computer or electronics engineering.There
are many events and courses related to- Robotics, ensue that you attend them from the very first year of
your bachelor&rsquo; s programme. You must do well in academics as a good robotic engineer would
probably need a great master's degree.only select colleges offer robotic engineering programmes
and even these have few seats as it requires a high investment for any college to set up a good 
robotics lab. This means the entrance examinations are difficult. So you must cultivate the habit of
reading lots of books-and the right kind of books,
Specific fields such as health-care robotics would also need an understanding of medical science, so
doctors too can pursue a career in robotics.
However, the good part is, once you start robotics-related work, you will be exposed to a truly
multidimensional science. There are many Indian and foreign universities which have dedicated
programmes in robotics or a special focus on robotics as part of their curriculum-including  the ITTs,
University of Pennsy lvania, University of Edinburgh and many more. Massachusetts Institute of
Technology even has a space robotics lab. Similarly, ITT Kanpur has a well -known centre for
Mechatronics. japan too has a well-developed robotics programme. University of Tokyo, University