As we saw earlier, robots are now playing football and all sorts of other games too.basketball,
cricket and many more. Of course, the games are scaled down, they are smaller versions of the actual
games. The most significant of them is the RoboCup, founded in I997, a football tournament of robots
across various size categories. The dream of RoboCup is to elevate artificial intelligence to a level
that by the middle of the twenty -first century, a team of fully autonomous humanoid robot soecer
players is able to win a soccer game, complying with the official rules of FIFA, against the winner of!
the most recent World Cup.
In I997, the first RoboCup games were held in Nagoya, Japan, with thirty -eight participating teams
from eleven different countries.In the 2013 RoboCup in Eindhoven,Netherlands,410 teams
participated from forty -five countries. The RoboCup is definitely catching on as a phenomenon.
What are cyborgs?
Cyborgs are often shown in cartoons as half human and half machine, But. in reality, there is no much
thing as a cyborg.At best,we have artificial intelligent limbs attached to those who have lost their
original limbs in an accident or to disease.Cyborgs exist only in fiction
Robots are considered to have significant application in the field of
surgery. Why?
Robots are good at doing repetitive task with a remarkable degree of precision, which is exactly the
skill needed in performing high-precisions surgeries.of course,they need to be programmed and
guided by experienced doctors throughtout the process
In the year 2000, the da vinci surgical system was invented,based on robotics,to perform complex
surgeries such as those performed in the heart, lungs, eyes, etc. Such a robot has four robotic arms,
three of them to hold tools like scissors, scalpels and so on. It Is operated from a console by a
surgeon, and it reads the hands of the surgeon and almost mirrors his or her movements. It became an
instant hit and, today, more than two lakh surgeries are conducted worldwide with it every y ear. The
cost of such a system is about ten crores. The Raven Surgical System, which hit the market around
2010, is much smaller and has a more compact design. It costs about one crore and performs almost
the same functions as the da Vinci System
How small can robots be?
Very, very small indeed. In fact the emerging stream in robotics is that of nanorobots. Nanorobots
will measure between 0.1 and 10 micrometres only. To get an idea of how small this is, take a