standard ruler. Look at its millimeter markings; notice the spacing between them-Just enough for an
ant to walk through, wouldn&rsquo;t you say ? Now, divide It into a thousand pieces, Of course, you cannot
do that on paper, but just imagine how small each such piece will be. This is I micrometre
Nanorobots measure in this range, some even smaller than this. So far, nanorobots are only
biological, usually made of protein. Non-biological nanorobots are still in the realm of theory and
may take some ten years to realize
These robots currently have an application In bioscience. When nanorobots are Injected into a patient,
they diagnose and deliver treatment exclusively in the affected area and themselves get digested as
they are basically DNA- or protein-based products. I saw the product sample in a lab in South Korea
where the best minds with multiple technologies work with the target of finding out-of-the-box
solutions
Such nanorobots will also see tremendous application in material science, where they will detect and
repair minute Internal flaws In machines, buildings and even spacecraft
How is a humanoid different from a robot?
The humanoid is a special form of robot which looks like a human being. They usually stand on two
feet have two hands which can bend near the elbow carry two cameras (resembling eye) and a 
rotating head and even fingers and thumbs. The can walk on two legs , tough they are usually slower
than humans and find it difficult to get up it they fall. They most famous of humanoids is ASIMO
which stands  for Advanced seep in Innovative Mobility. Developed by Honda, it  is about 4 feet and 3
inches tall and weighs about 48 kg--so it looks like a twelve-year-old it can recognize moving
objects, postures, gestures, voices andcaces. It can interact with humans, in so far as it will recognize
you and call you by your name and wave back if you wave at it. The newest version of ASIMO can
dance and conduct an orchestra.
In 2005 Toyota came up with a set of humanoids called the Toyota Partner Robots. They can play
drums, trumpets and even the violin.
What are bio-inspired robots?
The humble fact of science remains that while it has achieved a lot in terms of technology, there is
still lots more to learn and improve from nature itself. No human invention has come any where close
to replicating the mechanics of our eyes and our muscles, nature&rsquo;s own biosensors and bio-actuators.
What can we learn from the special qualities of biomaterials like the spider&rsquo;s web? What allows a
centipede to walk on virtually any kind of surface? How does a lizard climb vertical surfaces? How
can it walk upside down on ceilings? Will answers to these help us solve real-world engineering