CHAPTER 1
ROBOTICS
In May 2Ol4, my friend Srijan and I visited the University of Edinburgh in Scotland. It is a beautiful
country known for its mountains, orchards and castles. It is also home to many celebrated centres of
learning. The University of Edinburgh, set up over 440 years ago, has been at the forefront of learning
and research from the time of its inception and is today among the top twenty universities of the
World.
Among its distinguished alumni are Charles Darwin,Sir Alexander Graham Bell,the surgeon Joseph
Lister, the physicist James Maxwell and the mathematicial Thomas Bayes Walking down the aisles
of the university,we were grected by smiling portraits of these pioneering scientists,carefully
arranged next to each other,slightly tilted downwards.It almost seemed like they were giving
confidence to the students and the faculty at the university
The university has some of the most advanced centres of science and learning in the world.We
visited many of them, but the one which left the most lasting impression on me was the school for
lnformatics. I was greeted there by professor sethu vijaykumar,a professor robotics. who said
that he'd take us on a two-hour journey into the future of robotics.It was indeed an exciting thought
and we couldn&rsquo;t wait to hear more
Professor sethu took us to his lab, Where some of his inventions and innovations were on display
One which particularly interested me was a human-size hand, yellow and black in colour. I went
oloser to It and studied it carefully. Its features were very human-like, it had fingers with three
segments, a palm, wrist, forearm and even an opposable thumb. It seemed so human that Srijan shook
hands with it
Enthused by our curiosity, Professor Sethu smiled and made me sit on a chair by his side. He fastened
a small black strap near my elbow. Pressing a tiny black button by the side of the hand-like device, he
asked me to move my palm around the wrist in a circular motion. To everybody&rsquo;s surprise, as soon as
I performed this action, the metallic hand replicated the motion. I waved my hand and it waved back
at me. Then, Professor Sethu set a tough challenge before me. He placed a ball on the table and asked
me to pick it up using the robotic hand. I tried out a few motions and soon understood the dynamics of
how my human arm was now connected to the metalllic robotic hand. In a minute, I was able to guide