the robotic hand to not only pick up the ball but also throw it back at me. (You can see this robot
picking up the ball in the image section.) The professor was so pleased with my performance that he
introduced me to his larger creation, an adaptive arm that could move 360 degrees and was as tall as
a full-grown human being. This, he told me, was the future of robotics
Such robots can be used for various functions that are risky or difficult for humans, including going to
dangerous locations (like those affected by natural calamities, radiation, mines, deep-sea
exploration), managing human threats (like terrorist attacks) or even travelling to outer space. Robots
already have a strong application in the field of industry, right from building airplanes to nano-level
material science, making very small circuit-level connections on a microchip invisible to the human
eye
Professor Sethu told us that the next generation of robots would be extremely smart. They would be
able to understand the environment, analyse the assigned tasks and then. Using computation. determine
the best course of action to achieve the goal. To demonstrate what this meant he guided all of us to
he ground floor Pausing at a door, he casually mentioned that we would be going to the football
field. A football field in a lab of robots?All of us were intrigued.The professor pushed open the
door and led us into a large room which had football field filled with players wearing two different
coloured uniforms. The only difference was that they were not six-foot humans, but two-foot robots!
We were all surprised and eagerly looked forward to watching this match
Professor sethu hit the start button and the computer sounded a whistle for the robots to get into
evenly matched contest At one point,the blue team's striker aimed a long,powerful shot towards the
goal and the ball evaded the diving goalkeeper of the rd team.We all gasped but the ball hit the
goalpost and bounced back into the game. The goalkeeper, who had fallen, got up. The match
continued for five minutes until.finally the red team's striker hit goal right from the middle of the
field,theyby winning the match All the red robots started jumping in joy.I applauded for them
feeling hapyy that the next generation of robots would not just be machines but also loyal teammate?
-much like a human football team
This is a step forward in the field of robotics-humanity&rsquo; s long-cherished dream to make smarter
machines which can enhance productivity, reduce wastage and ensure precision.
Let us now go into the specifics. As you may know, any typical robot has six essential parts
I. A moveable body: This may include wheels, belts or even limbs which are connected by
some form of Joints or other types of moveable segments.
2. An actuator: Robots may be activated using an electric motor, a hydraulic system, a
pneumatic or gas-operated system or a combination of all three.
3. Power bank: Like any other machine, a robot needs a power source to drive its actuators.