biologist, I thought the closest thing to understanding human motion capabilities was to create      
machines that can closely mimic them. This naturally led me to work in areas that were at the
interface of machines and humans, leading to the prosthetics research.
Q. W hat is your typical day like?
Surprisingly, a research scientist like me does not have a typical day, every day brings exciting new
challenges! Usually I start my day with a cup of coffee, and deal with urgent correspondence from my
office in the informatics department. During term time, I teach a class of senior undergraduate and
postgraduate students twice a week in the mornings on the subject of robotics and machine learning. I
have regular lab meetings with my PhD students and postdoctoral researchers in my group and
discuss weekly progress on research agendas and set new goals. I also have one-on-one meetings to
discuss research topics on the whiteboard with my students in my office. A significant part of my day
is spent implementing solutions on hardware. In between, I spend time writing up the results of our
work in research papers as Well as discussing Ways to transform some of these ideas into novel
products with commercial companies. I take a break for lunch in the afternoon, which is a fun affair
where researchers from different fields informally chat about everything under the sun.I catch up with
my secretaries on issues that I need to decide on in my role as institute director.I also chair institute
faculty meetings to monitor research and progress of phD students my tole as a professor, I also
have to travel extensively This includes presenting papers at international conferences attending
Project review meetings for our internationally funded projects as well as serving the community by
being on peer review panels Most of these trips are to really exciting cities in Europe like Lisbon 
Barcelona. Paris. Zurich,etc.,and there are some long-haul trips to the USA and Japan too However,
sadly. I am usually too busy to do any sightseeing! Sometimes I have to work weekends and late into
the night to meet conference and project deadlines
Q. What is the most important quality needed to be a successful robotics engineer?
One needs to possess an analytic thinking mind and develop strong fundamentals in science subjects
such as mathematics and physics. Another very important quality is perseverance. Robotics involves
creating conceptual solutions to real-world problems and then implementing them on real machines!
The path from concepts and ideas to design, implementation on hardware (electronics, mechanics)
and testing in the real world is filled with many steps and hurdles. It is easy to feel disappointed
when a concept that seems to work perfectly on paper does not meet expectations due to mismatch in
specifications and complex real-world conditions. Successful roboticists are able to overcome
multiple setbacks on the road to success. Sometimes complex problems have relatively simple
solutions. The quality to see through the clutter and complexity and discover simple breakthrough
principles is another invaluable quality for a robotic engineer. Surprisingly, people with good design
and artistic skills have a big role to play in robotics as well since it is not just about the mechanics,
Good robots need to be compact, attractive and packaged appropriately to work in close contact with
humans.