is how it is known today.
And that&rsquo; s how the Big Bang Theory came into place. According to this theory, around 13. 8 billion
years ago, all the matter in the universe emerged from a single minute point, also known as
singularity, in a violent burst. This expanded at a very high rate and temperature, doubling in size
every 20 to 30 seconds. Within a tiny fraction of a second, gravity and all the other forces were
formed. Energy changed into particles of matter and antimatter, which largely destroyed each other
But luckily for us some matter survived, which formed our planet, the solar system and other bodies.
Protons and neutrons started to constitute within the first few seconds. Within minutes these protons
and neutrons fused and formed hydrogen and helium nuclei. Even today hydrogen is the most abundant
element in the universe.
After 3,00,000 years, groups of protons finally captured electrons to form atoms, filling the universe
with clouds of hydrogen and helium gas. After around 3,80,000 years, It left behind a huge train of
photons-called the Cosmic Microwave background that Penzias and wilson  accidentally detected.
II. The next-generation spacecraft
on 20 July 1969, the first human landed on the Moon, creating history. It took Apollo 11, the 
spaceship that carried Neil Armstrong. Michael Collins and Buzz Aldrin, four days, six hours an
forty- five minutes to get to the Moon covering a distance of about 3,80,000 km, at average speed
of 3740 kmph. if we travel with that speed, it would take more than 1.5 years to just reach Mar. of 
course, we have more improved technology today than in 1969, with better solid and liquid fuel to 
burn in order to release the hot gases that thrust the rocket forward
But even with better fuels, liquid-and-fulled propulsion has its limitations. it is estimated
that it hits a maximum speed of 60,000 kmph. While this is quite fast, it is not even close to the speeds
we need to reach the distant planets and stars. The fastest chemically propelled spacecraft created so
far, called the New Horizon, will reach Pluto in nine y ears. we cannot even think of sending humans
on such long-duration flights! Clearly, we need systems with greater speed and that require less or no
fuel
Nearly all long-distance spacecraft currently use a feature called the &lsquo;gravity assist&rsquo;. With the help of
this feature, the spacecraft do not fly directly to their target planets, but weave around intermediary
planets to use their gravity to either increase or decrease their speed with no extra fuel expense. This
technology allows current chemical-propelled rockets to hit a speed of up to 62,000 kmph.
A new technology called Ion Propulsion is now being increasingly deploy ed. Engines with this