1. How was the universe created?
People have always wondered how the world around them was created. Various religions and tribes
have come up with many different theories to answer this question. The Boshongo people of central
Africa have a very interesting theory for the origin of the universe. They believe that in the beginning,
there was only darkness, water and the great god Bumba. One day Bumba had a stomach ache and
vomited out the Sun. The Sun dried up some of the water, leaving the land as we see it today. Still in
pain, Bumba vomited out the Moon, the stars and then some animals-the leopard, the crocodile, the
turtle and finally, man. Bumba was of course just a part of the imagination of the early Boshongos.
Today, by our best estimates there are around a hundred billion stars in the Milky way (our galaxy)
and at least 140 billion galaxies across the universe. The universe is vast-far beyond our
imagination.
Until the twentieth century, we understood almost nothing about the all-important question-how the
universe was formed. Then in the 1920s, Edwin Hubble. a famous space scientist in whose name
NASA later built the Hubble Telephone, concluded that the universe was not static but always
expanding. This also means that if we go back in time the universe would keep getting smaller and
smaller, till the point when it was a were a mere dot. But this theory sounded irrational to many, and another  
well-known space scientist, Fred Hoyle, made fun of Hubble by calling his theory &lsquo;Big Bang&rsquo;. Little
did he know that in his attempt at mockery. he&rsquo;d. actually end up giving it a name that would go down
in history-The Big Bang Theory
But nobody could prove the Big Bang Theory for the next thirty-five years. Then an accident
happened, Space scientists Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson were  trying to tune into the high-
frequency microwave signals transmitted by our galaxy-the Milky way or Akash Ganga-when the
radio antenna they were using kept picking up a persistent weak hiss of radio noise. They thought the
antenna had problem so they rebuilt it. but the noise persisted. Then it occurred to them that it was
probably because of the pigeons in the area or the mess they left on the antennas. So they drove away
the pigeons and cleaned the antennas again. Still the hissing continued. After further study they
concluded that the hiss they had tried so hard to get rid of was the echo of the Big Bang, which had
persisted for billions of y ears, reverberating across the universe. To get some Idea of this, imagine
standing on a mountain, where you are surrounded by many other mountains all around you. If you
shout, your voice, as a sound wave, will travel, hit other surrounding rocks and then be reflected back
at you as another wave. This is called an echo. If there are many mountains and rocks around, you
will keep hearing echo after echo, as each of the rocks will keep on reflecting your voice
Now imagine the Big Bang-it generated waves a trillion times more powerful than your voice. This
almost infinite energy traveled as waves and hit the boundaries of the expanding universe,
This echo of the Big Bang was later called Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) radiation, which