of the universe w as portray ed as a witty scholar while the other w as shown as a fool. The play
became a roaring success! More importantly, the theory of heliocentricity started gaining momentum.
But Gallileo&rsquo;s satire on geocentricity was also taken note of by the leaders of the Church, who were
obviously not happy with it. They immediately charged him with heresy. This time, despite his
reputation, the Inquisition dealt with him harshly. They threatened him with torture and death unless
he publicly withdrew his theory and agreed that the Earth was indeed stationary. Galileo, now an
aging man, buckled under pressure. He realized that if he did not concede, he would be burnt at the
stake. According to some accounts though, while being forced to apologize for his outrageous theory,
Galileo crossed his fingers behind his back as he softly mumbled, &lsquo;... I am apologizing, even as the
Earth still moving The Inquisition was not fully satisfied with the apology, and wanted to punish
Galileo further. So, they placed him under house arrest for the rest of his life. Renowned artist
Cristiano Banti captured this moment in a famous painting which you can see in the image section.
There  were many other astronomers who agreed with the heliocentric theory, but they were all
crushed, even as they wee slowly staring to gain public favour. It was only after 300 years, in 1820
that the Church allowed another astronomer-joseph Settle-to finally set things right. The fact that
the sun is indeed the centre of the solar system as finally acknowledged by everyone In the 1990s,
the Vatican acknowledged that the treatment meted out to Galileo had been a mistake. The battle for
heliocentricity was finally won.
Space science is an area which has attracted people for ages. The cavemen would up at the 
skies, trying to understand day and night where clouds came from and how far away the Stars were 
They would draw lines and cricles around the position of the Stars determine the shapes they 
would make. These early men would wonder why the sun rose every morning and why it disappeared
every night. They started relating natural events, life and birth, famines and good harvests, to the 
position of the stars. They started thinking of the stars as heavenly bodies and called them gods In
fact, the Sun was considered a life-giving god by every religion in the world at one point. Daytime
was associated with good things like warmth and food, while nights were considered evil and
dangerous.
The Future of Space Science
The future of space science is very vibrant. It revolves around three basic questions, which
humankind has been asking for centuries
l. How was the universe born?
2. How can we reach far-off planets, billions of kilometres away?
3. Is there life beyond Earth?