based on his theory.
But it would be a long time before these radical notions displaeed the Church&rsquo; s stand on the matter of
the Earth&rsquo; s motion
In medieval Europe, the Church had the authority to suppress anything that went against the Holy
Scriptures-including scientific facts. Contradicting the Holy Scriptures was considered heresy, a
crime punishable by even torturous death. The Church appointed a group of institutions called the
inquisition&rsquo; to deal with heresy. The Inquisition became responsible for punishing and executing
scientists who questioned existing beliefs. Books on subjects that the Inquisition thought contradictory
to religious beliefs w ere banned.
A war between science and religion started brewing, with most of the casualties being on the side of
science. Copernicus escaped being punished for heresy only because he died a natural death Just as
his book-was being published.
However. not everyone who defied the Church escaped its wrath
Almost two hundred years after Copernicus's death another legendary astronomer and physicist 
published supported the heliocentric theory. Galileo Galliei  born in 1564 in Italy, was renowned even 
before he began his work in astronomy in 1610. He was first person to study the simple harmonic
motion or a swinging pendulum. He also invented the thermoscope (which later became the
thermometer) and the hydrostatic balance. an instrument used for measuring the weight of a body
submerged in water. Galileo's good reputation with  the religious leaders lasted till the early 1600s,
when he came across copernicus&rsquo;s work (which had been banned for 170 years) and started
challenging the geocentric theory.
Since he lived in a country dotted-with coastlines, Galileo had ample opportunity to observe the
movement of the  tides. Every day he would watch the tides rise and fall. Based on his initials work,
Galileo believed that the tides were a result of the combined effect of the Earth&rsquo;s revolution and its
rotation around the Sun, which created certain forces on the water. Today we know that while
Galileo&rsquo; s conclusion about the Earth moving around the Sun was correct, the assumption that tides
were caused due to its revolution would be later found to be inaccurate. Tides are caused by the
Moon&rsquo;s gravitational pull, as proved by another famous space scientist-Kepler.
In 1610, Galileo started using a telescope to observe other planets like jupiter and Venus to realfirm
his theory. His work brought him in conflict with the religious leaders of the time, who immediately
banned his books and forbade him from sharing his theory with the world
But Galileo was not to be dissuaded. In 1632, he published a different book on heliocentricity, this
time cleverly disguising the theory in a play as a conversation between two people-one advocating
heliocentricity and the other in favour of geocentricity. The character supporting the Sun as the centre