technology utilize electrical power to charge a gas in a magnetic chamber. Typically, the gas used is
xenon. These charged particles, positively-charged atoms, are ejected from the engine to produce
thrust. Ion spaceships are not useful for short-distance travel, for instance, to the Moon or Mars, as
they take a lot of time to achieve full speed. But they are ideal for long-distance space travel and can
hit speeds of up to 3,2O,OOO kmph. Currently, ion-propelled spaceships are being sent to the Vesta
and Ceres asteroids
Another very promising technology being tested now is that of Solar Sail Spaceships. These are
essentially solar-powered spaceships which are light, small and use large solar panels to harness the
Sun&rsquo;s energy to power their engines. Sunjammer (you can see a photograph of this In the image
section), one such spaceship, was launched in late 2Ol4. On the surface, It is just slightly bigger than
a washing machine but once deployed in space it expands to thin, large solar sails, about 38m long
from end to end. Over long distances, such spaceships can achieve a speed of up to 3,2S,OOO kmph.
solar sail is currently where our current prototypes have reached But could there be faster
spaceship in the future? One such possibility is the Laser Beam spaceship. This is how it works
laser beam, as you may known, is made up of energy particles called photons. In a Laser Beam
Spaceship, a large and powerful laser is beamed from a distance, say the Earth itself. The
Spaceship, accelerates within this beam using energy from the laser (photons).Images this as placing
a small ball on the top of a pipe carrying water-the after will push the ball forward. Only in this
case. the laser beam Is far more powerful than the water in the pipe. Space scientists regard this
technology as establishing a metro railway network between planets. This technology can even be
used for short-distance travel as the acceleration can be very rapid. The maximum speed expected
from these Laser Beam Spaceship is about 2 million kmph. 
For a long time, another technology which has been considered for spaceships is nuclear propulsion.
Nuclear-powered spaceships detonate nuclear fuel n the engine t generate thrust. The only trouble
is, such a rocket cannot be powered by fission reaction, our current technology. It needs fusion
power, which we are yet to discover despite ongoing efforts in many nations for many decades.
Nuclear spaceships, when ready, will be fast, small and ideal for all kinds of travel. It may hit a
speed of up to 1,31,000,000 (13 I million) kmph, making it possible to reach even distant stars.