his way to Tomoe and would arrive there crestfallen, whereupon I would quickly ask
 him what children had done it and was out of the gate in a flash. After a while I
 would come running back and assure him it was all right now and wouldn&rsquo;t happen
 again.
 &ldquo;You made me so happy then,&rdquo; he said when we parted. I had forgotten. Thank you,
 Takahashi, for remembering.
 Miyo-chan (Miyo Kaneko)
 Mr. Kobayashi&rsquo;s third daughter, Miyo-chan, graduated from the Education
 Department of Kunitachi College of Music and now teaches music at the elementary
 school attached to the college. Like her father, she loves teaching young children.
 From the time she was about three years old, Mr. Kobayashi had observed Miyo-
 chan walking and moving her body in time to music, as well as learning to talk, and
 this helped him greatly in his teaching of children.
 Sakko Matsuyama (now Mr. Sairo)
 Sakko-chan, the girl with the large eyes who was wearing a pinafore with a rabbit on
 it the day I started at Tomoe, entered a school that was in those days very difficult
 for girls to get into--now known as Mita High School. She went on to the English
 Department of Tokyo Woman&rsquo;s Christian University, became an English instructor
 with the YWCA, and is still there. She makes good use of her Tomoe experience at
 their summer camps.
 She married a man she met while climbing Mount Hotaka in the Japan Alps. They
 named their son Yasutaka-the last part commemorating the name of the mountain on
 which they met.
 Taiji Yamanouchi
 Tai-chan, who said he wouldn&rsquo;t marry me, became one of Japan&rsquo;s leading physicists.
 He lives in America, an example of the &ldquo;brain drain.&rdquo; He graduated in physics from
 the Science Department of Tokyo University of Education. After his M.Sc., he went
 to America on a Fulbright exchange scholarship and got his doctorate five years
 later at the University of Rochester. He remained there, doing research in
 experimental high-energy physics. At present he is at the Fermi National Accelerator
 Laboratory in Illinois, the world&rsquo;s largest, where he is assistant director. It is a
 research laboratory comprising the cleverest people from fifty-three universities in
 America, and is a giant organization with 145 physicists and 1,400 technical staff, so
 you can see what a genius Tai-chan is. The laboratory attracted world attention five
 years ago when it succeeded in producing a high-energy beam of 500 billion
 electron volts.
 Recently, Tai-chan, in collaboration with a professor from Columbia University,
 discovered something called upsilon. I am sure Tai-chan will receive the Nobel Prize
 one day.
 Tai-chan married a talented girl who graduated with honors in mathematics from the
 University of Rochester. With such brains, Tai-chan would probably have gone far
 103