For people who didn&rsquo;t have a house like Mr. Saito&rsquo;s to go to, Mother said there was
 only one Japanese-style inn and one Western-style hotel. But, interestingly lots of
 foreigners went there.
 For Totto-chan, this year was different from the year before. She was now a first
 grade pupil at elementary school, and also she knew one bit of English. Daddy had
 taught her how to say, &ldquo;Thank you.&rdquo;
 Foreigners who passed Totto-chan standing on the snow in her skis always used to
 say something. It was probably, &ldquo;Isn&rsquo;t she sweet,&rdquo; or something like that, but Totto-
 chan didn&rsquo;t understand. And until this year she hadn&rsquo;t been able to reply, but from
 now on She tried bobbing her head and saying, &ldquo;Thank you.&rdquo;
 That made the foreigners smile even more and say something to each other.
 Sometimes a lady would bend down and put her cheek against Totto-chan&rsquo;s cheek, or
 a gentleman would hug her. Totto-chan thought it was great fun to be able to make
 such good friends with people just by saying, &ldquo;Thank you.&rdquo;
 One day a nice young man came over to Totto-chan and gestured as much as to say,
 &lsquo;&ldquo;Would you like a ride on the front of my skis?&rdquo; Daddy told her she could.
 &ldquo;Thank you,&rdquo; replied Totto-chan, and the man had her sit down by his feet on his skis
 with her knees drawn up. Then, keeping both his skis together, he skied with Totto-
 chan down the gentlest and longest slope at Shiga Highlands. They went like the
 wind, and as the air rushed past her ears it made a whistling sound. Totto-chan
 hugged her knees tightly taking care not to fall forward. It was a bit scary, but
 tremendous fun. When they came to a halt, the people who were watching clapped.
 Getting up from the man&rsquo;s skis, Totto-chan bowed her head slightly to the onlookers,
 and said, &ldquo;Thank you.&rdquo; They clapped all the more.
 Much later on she learned that the man&rsquo;s name was Schneider, and that he was a
 world-famous skier, who always used a pair of silver ski poles. But that day, what
 she liked about him was that after they had skied down the slope, and everybody had
 clapped, he crouched down beside her and, taking her hand, he looked at her as if she
 was somebody important and said, &ldquo;Thank you.&rdquo; He didn&rsquo;t treat her like a child, but
 like a real grown-up lady. When he bent down, Totto-chan knew in her heart,
 instinctively, that he was a gentleman. And beyond him, the snow-white landscape
 seemed to go on forever.
 The Library Car
 When the children returned to school after the winter vacation, they discovered
 something wonderful and new, and greeted their discovery with shouts of joy.
 Opposite the row of classroom cars stood the new car, beside the flower bed by the
 Assembly Hall. In their absence it had become a library! Ryo-chan, the janitor,
 whom everyone respected and who could do all sorts of things, had obviously been
 working terribly hard. He had put up lots and lots of shelves in the car, and they were
 filled with rows of books of all kinds and colors. There were desks and chairs, too,
 where you could sit and read.
 60