It was a difficult phrase for a little girl, but no worse than the name of that man in the
 comic rakugo tale whose name took so long to say he drowned in the well before his
 rescuers knew who he was. Totto-chan had to concentrate hard on the phrase,
 however, and if anyone nearby had suddenly started saying that famous long name
 that began, &lsquo;&ldquo;Jugemu-Jugemu,&rdquo; she would have forgotten the phrase straight away.
 Even if she said, &ldquo;Here we go,&rdquo; as she jumped over a puddle, she would be bound to
 get it muddled, so she could do nothing but keep on repeating it to herself.
 Thankfully, nobody tried to speak to her in the train and she tried not to discover
 anything interesting, so she managed to reach her station without even a single
 &ldquo;What was that!&rdquo; But as she was leaving the station, a man she recognized who
 worked there said, &ldquo;Hello, back already?&rdquo; and she was on the point of replying but
 stopped herself, knowing it would mix her up, so she just waved to him and ran
 home.
 The moment she reached the front door, she shouted to Mother at the top of her
 voice, &ldquo;Thunder canyon field kitchen!&rdquo; At first Mother wondered if it was a judo yell
 or a rallying cry of the Forty-seven Ronin. Then it clicked. Near Todoroki Station,
 three stops beyond Jiyugaoka, there was a famous beauty spot called Todoroki
 Keikoku, or Thunder Canyon. It was one Of the most celebrated places of old Tokyo.
 It had a waterfall, a stream, and beautiful woods. As for field kitchen-that must mean
 the children were going to have a cookout there. What a difficult phrase to teach
 children, she marveled. But it proved how easily children learn once their interest is
 aroused.
 Grateful to be released at last from the difficult phrase, Totto-chan gave Mother all
 the relevant details, one after the other. The children were to assemble at the school
 the following Friday morning. The things they had to bring were a soup bowl, a rice
 bowl, chopsticks, and one cup of uncooked rice. The headmaster said it became two
 bowlfuls when cooked, she remembered to add. They were going to make pork soup,
 too, so she needed some pork and vegetables. And they could bring something for an
 afternoon snack if they wanted.
 The next few days Totto-chan stuck close to Mother in the kitchen and carefully
 observed how she used a knife, how she held a pot, and how she served the rice. It
 was nice watching her work in the kitchen, bur what Totto-chan liked most was the
 way Mother would say, &ldquo;Ooh, that&rsquo;s hot!&rdquo; and quickly put her thumb and index
 finger to her ear-lobe whenever she picked up something hot like a lid.
 &ldquo;That&rsquo;s because earlobes are cold,&rdquo; Mother explained.
 Her gesture impressed Totto-chan as being very grown-up and evidence of kitchen
 expertise. She said to herself, &ldquo;When we thunder-canyon-field-kitchen, I&rsquo;m going to
 do that, too!&rdquo;
 Friday finally arrived. When they had reached Thunder Canyon after leaving the
 train, the head-master surveyed the children gathered in the woods. Their dear little
 faces glowed in the sunlight as it filtered through the tall trees. With their knapsacks
 bulging, the children waited to hear what the head-master had to say, while beyond
 them the famous waterfall fell in booming torrents, making a beautiful rhythm.
 68