POSTSCRIPT
 To write about the school called Tomoe and Sosaku Kobayashi, the man who
 founded and ran it are the things I have most wanted to do for a long time.
 I have invented none of the episodes. They are all events that really happened and,
 thankfully, I have been able to remember quite a few of them. Besides wanting to
 write them down, I have been anxious to make amends for a broken pledge. As I
 have described in one of the chapters, as a child I made a solemn promise to Mr.
 Kobayashi that I would teach at Tomoe when I grew up. However, it was a promise I
 was not able to fulfill. Instead I have tried to reveal, to as many people as possible,
 what sort of man Mr. Kobayashi was, his great love for children, and how he set
 about educating them.
 Mr. Kobayashi died in 1963. If he were alive today there would be much more he
 could have told me. Even as I write I realize how many episodes that just seem happy
 childhood memories to me were, in fact, activities carefully thought out by him to
 achieve certain results. &ldquo;So that&rsquo;s what Mr. Kobayashi must have had in mind,&rdquo; I find
 myself thinking. Or, &ldquo;Fancy him even thinking about that.&rdquo; With each discovery I
 make, I am amazed-and deeply moved and grateful.
 In my own case, I find it impossible to assess how much I have been sustained by the
 way he used to keep saying to me, &ldquo;You&rsquo;re really a good girl, you know.&rdquo; Had I not
 entered Tomoe and had I never met Mr. Kobayashi, I would probably have been
 labeled &ldquo;a bad girl,&rdquo; becoming complex-ridden and confused.
 Tomoe was destroyed by fire in the Tokyo air raids in 1945. Mr. Kobayashi had built
 the school with his own money, so reestablishing it took time. After the war, he
 started a kindergarten on the old site, while helping to establish what is now the
 Child Education Department of Kunitachi College of Music. He also taught
 eurythmics there and assisted in the establishment of Kunitachi Elementary School.
 He died, at the age of sixty-nine, before he could set up his ideal school once more.
 Tomoe Gakuen was in southwest Tokyo, a three-minute walk from Jiyugaoka Station
 on the Toyoko Line. The site is now occupied by the Peacock super-market and
 parking lot. I went there the other day out of sheer nostalgia, although I knew nothing
 was left of the school or its grounds. I drove slowly past the parking lot, where the
 railroad-car classrooms and playground used to be. The man in charge of the packing
 lot saw my car and called out, &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t come in, you can&rsquo;t come in. We&rsquo;re full!&rdquo;
 &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to park,&rdquo; I felt like saying, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m just evoking memories.&rsquo;&rdquo; But he would
 not have understood, so I went on. But a great sadness came over me and tears rolled
 down my cheeks as I sped away.
 I am sure all over the world there are fine educators - people with high ideals and a
 great love for children--who dream of setting up ideal schools. And I know how
 difficult it must be to realize this dream. It took Mr. Kobayashi years and years of
 study before starting Tomoe in 1937 and it burned down in 1945, so its existence was
 very brief.
 96