Totto-chan was so-infuriated she ran after the boys. All by herself. But they were
 very fast, running down a side sneer and disappearing as quick as a wink. Totto-chan
 walked back to school disconsolately. As she walked, she sang:
 Tomoe School is a wonderful school;
 A few steps along, she added:
 Inside and out, it&rsquo;s a wonderful school!
 She liked it, and it made her feel better. So when she got back, she pretended she
 was from another school and shouted through the hedge in a loud voice, so that
 everybody could hear:
 Tomoe School is a wonderful school;
 Inside and out, it&rsquo;s a wonderful school!
 The children playing in the grounds at first couldn&rsquo;t imagine who it was. When they
 realized it was Totto-chan, they went out to the road and joined in. Finally they all
 linked arms and marched along the roads surrounding the school chanting together. It
 was their hearts that were in unison even more than their voices, although they didn&rsquo;t
 realize that then. The more they went around the school, the more they entered into
 the spirit of it.
 Tomoe School is a wonderful school;
 Inside and out, it&rsquo;s a wonderful school!
 The children little knew, of course, what happiness their chant was giving the
 headmaster, as he sat listening in his office.
 It must be the same for any educator, but for those in particular who truly think about
 the children, running a school must be a daily series of agonies. It must have been
 even more so at a school like Tomoe, where everything was so unusual. The school
 could not escape criticism from people used to a more conventional system of
 education.
 In such circumstances, that song of the children was the nicest gift they could
 possibly have given the headmaster.
 Tomoe School is a wonderful school;
 Inside and out, it&rsquo;s a wonderful school!
 That day the final bell rang later than usual.
 The Hair Ribbon
 One day at lunch break, after the children had finished eating, Totto-chan was
 skipping across the Assembly Hall when she met the headmaster. It is perhaps odd
 73