America and training and research institutes sprang up everywhere. Here is the story
 of how Dalcroze&rsquo;s eurhythmics came to be adopted at Tomoe.
 Before starting Tomoe Gakuen, the headmaster, Sosaku Kobayashi, went to Europe
 to see how children were being educated abroad. He visited a great many elementary
 schools and talked to educators. In Paris, he met Dalcroze, a fine composer as well as
 an educator.
 Dalcroze had spent a long rime wondering how children could be taught to hear and
 feel music in their minds lather than just with their ears; how to make them feel
 music as a thing of movement rather than a dull, lifeless subject; how to awaken a
 child&rsquo;s sensitivity.
 Eventually, after watching the way children jumped and skipped and romped about,
 he hit on the idea of creating rhythmic exercises, which he called eurythmics.
 Kobayashi attended the Dalcroze school in Paris for over a year and learned this
 system thoroughly. Many Japanese have been influenced by Dalcroze --the composer
 Koscak Yamada; the originator o modern dance in Japan, Baku Ishii; the Kabuki
 actor
 lchikawa Sadanji II; the moden drama pioneer Kaoru Osannai; the dancer Michio
 Ito. All of these people felt that Dalcroze&rsquo;s teachings were fundamental to many of
 the arts. But Sosaku Kobayashi was the first to apply it to elementary education in
 Japan.
 If you asked him what eurythmics was, he would reply, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a sport that refines the
 body&rsquo;s mechanism; a sport that teaches the mind how to use and control the body; a
 sport that enables the body and mind to understand rhythm. Practicing eurythmics
 makes the personality rhythmical. And a rhythmical personality is beautiful and
 strong, conforming to and obeying the laws of nature.&rdquo;
 Totto-chan&rsquo;s classes began with training the body to understand rhythm. The
 headmaster would play the piano on the small stage in the Assembly Hall and the
 children, wherever they stood, would start walking in time to the music. They could
 walk in whatever manner they liked, except that it wasn&rsquo;t good to bump into others,
 so they tended to go in the same circular direction. If they thought the music was in
 two-beat time, they would wave their arms up and down, like a conductor, as they
 walked. As for their feet, they were not supposed to tramp heavily, but that didn&rsquo;t
 mean they were to walk with toes pointed either, as in ballet. They were told to walk
 completely relaxed, as if they were dragging their toes. The most important thing was
 naturalness, so they could walk in any way they felt was right. If the rhythm changed
 to three-beat time, they waved their arms accordingly and adjusted their pace to the
 tempo, walking faster or slower as required. They had to learn to raise and lower
 their arms to fit rhythms up to six-beat time. Four-beat time was simple enough:
 &ldquo;Down, around you, out to the sides, and up.&rsquo;&rdquo;
 But when it came to five beats it was:
 &ldquo;Down, around you, out in front, out to the sides, and up.&rsquo;&rdquo;
 37