Hideo Saito, the cellist, who used to conduct while Rosenstock was resting, spoke
 the best German and would reply for them all, &ldquo;we are doing the best we can. Our
 technique is still not good enough. I assure you our failure is rot deliberate.&rdquo;
 The intricacies of the situation escaped her, but sometimes Mr. Rosenstock would get
 so red in the face it seemed as if steam should be coming out of his head, and he
 began shouting in German. At times like that, Totto-chan would retire from her
 favorite window where she had been watching--chin in hands--and would crouch on
 the ground with Rocky, hardly daring to breathe, and wait for the music to begin
again.
 But normally Mr. Rosenstock was very nice and his Japanese was quite amusing.
 &ldquo;Very good, Kuroyanagi-san,&rdquo; he would say with a funny accent when they had
 played well. Or, &ldquo;Wonderful!&rdquo;
 Totto-chan had never been inside the rehearsal hall. She liked to peek in at the
 window and listen to the music. So when they stopped for a break and the musicians
 came outside to have a smoke, Daddy often found her there.
 &ldquo;Oh, there you are, Totsky!&rdquo; he would say.
 If Mr. Rosenstock spotted her he&rsquo;d say, &ldquo;Good morning&rdquo; or&ldquo;Good day&rdquo; in his funny
 accent, and although she was big now, he would pick her up as he did when she was
 little and put his cheek against hers. It embarrassed her a bit, but she liked Mr.
 Rosenstock. He wore glasses with thin silver rims and had a large nose and was not
 very tall. But he had a fine handsome face that you could immediately recognize as
 an artist&rsquo;s.
 Totto-chan liked the rehearsal hall. It was rather western in style, and a bit
 dilapidated.
 The wind that blew from Senzoku Pond carried the sound of the music far beyond
 the rehearsal hall. Sometimes the call of the goldfish (kingyo) vendor would blend
 with the music:
 kin-gyo ee kin-gyo
A Trip ta a Hot Spring
 Summer vacation came to an end, and the day of the trip to the hot spring resort
 finally arrived. It was considered by the students to be Tomoe&rsquo;s main event. Not
 many things surprised Mother, but when Totto-chan came home from school one day
 and asked, &ldquo;May I go on the hot spring trip with the others?&rdquo; she was flabbergasted.
 She had heard of old people visiting hot springs in groups but not first graders. But
 after she read the headmaster&rsquo;s letter carefully, she thought it was an excellent idea
 and was filled with admiration for his plan. The trip was to be a &ldquo;Seaside School&rdquo; at
 a place called Toi on the Izu Peninsula in Shizuoka. There was a hot spring right in
 the sea, where the children could both swim and take hot baths. The trip would last
 three days and two nights. The father of one of the Tomoe students had a vacation
 home there, where all fifty of the Tomoe students from first through sixth grades
 could stay. Mother, of course, agreed.
 34