The headmaster clapped vigorously, and Totto-chan and the others did, too. Even
 &ldquo;And then... uh...,&rdquo; who was still standing in their midst, clapped. The Assembly Hall
 was filled with the sound of clapping.
 Even when he was a grown man that boy probably never forgot the sound of that
 applause.
 &lsquo;&ldquo;We Were Only Playing!&rdquo;
 Totto-chan had a terrible accident. It happened after she got home from school, while
 she and Rocky were playing &ldquo;wolf&rsquo; in her room before dinner.
 They had begun by playing a game where you rolled toward each other from
 opposite sides of the room, ending in a brief tussle when you bumped into each other.
 They played this several times and then decided to try something a little more
 complicated&mdash;although it was Totto-chan, of course, who did the deciding. The idea
 was that when they met in the middle of the room after rolling toward each other, the
 one who made the fiercer wolf face at the other would be the winner. Rocky was a
 German shepherd, so it wasn&rsquo;t hard for him to look like a wolf. Ah he had to do was
 point his ears, open his mouth, and bare all his teeth. He could make his eyes look
 pretty fierce, too. It was a little more difficult for Totto-chan. She would hold both
 hands up on either side of her head to look like ears, open her mouth and eyes as
 wide as she could, make growling noises, and pretend to bite Rocky. At first, Rocky
 played the game very well. But he was a puppy, and after a while, he forgot it was
 just a game and suddenly bit Totto-chan in earnest.
 Although still a puppy, Rocky was almost twice as big as Totto-chan and had sharp,
 pointed teeth, so before she realized what was happening her right ear was dangling
 from her head and blood was streaming down.
 Hearing her screams, Mother came rushing from the kitchen to find Totto-chan in the
 corner of the room with Rocky, holding her right ear with both hands. Her dress was
 splattered with blood. Daddy, who had been practicing the violin in the living room,
 came rushing in, too. Rocky seemed to realize he had done something terrible. His
 tail hung between his legs and he looked pathetically at Totto-chan.
 The only thing Totto-chan could think of was what would she do if Mother and
 Daddy got so angry with Rocky they got rid of him or gave him away. That would
 have been the saddest and most dreadful thing as far as she was concerned. So she
 crouched down beside Rocky, holding her right ear and crying out repeatedly, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t
 scold Rocky! Don&rsquo;t scold Rocky!&rdquo;
Mother and Daddy were more interested in seeing what had happened to her eat and
 tried to pull her hands away. Totto-chan wouldn&rsquo;t let go and shouted, &ldquo;it doesn&rsquo;t hurt!
 Don&rsquo;t be cross with Rocky! Don&rsquo;t be cross!&rdquo; Totto-chan truly wasn&rsquo;t conscious of the
 pain at the time. All she could think of was Rocky.
 Blood kept trickling down, and Mother and Daddy eventually realized that Rocky
 must have bitten her. But they assured Totto-chan they wouldn&rsquo;t be cross with him,
 and the child finally removed her hands. When she saw Totto-chan&rsquo;s ear dangling,
Mother screamed. Daddy carried his little girl to the doctor&rsquo;s with Mother leading the
 47