purse made of red, yellow, and green checked taffeta. It was square and flat, with a
 silver Scotch terrier rather like a brooch over the triangular flap of the fastening.
 Now Totto-chan had a curious habit. Ever since she was small, whenever she went to
 the toilet, she made it a point to peer down the hole after she had finished.
 Consequently, even before she started going to elementary school, she had already
 lost several hats, including a straw one and a white lace one. Toilets, in those days,
 had no flush systems, only a sort of cesspool underneath, so the hats were usually left
 floating there. Mother was always telling Totto-chan not to peer down the hole after
 she had finished using the toilet.
 That day, when Totto-chan went to the toilet before school started, she forgot
 Mother&rsquo;s warning, and before she knew it, she found herself peering down the hole.
 She must have Loosened her hold on the purse at that moment, for it slipped out of
 her hand and dropped down the hole with a splash. Totto-chan let out a cry as it
 disappeared into the darkness below.
 But Totto-chan refused to shed tears or give up the purse as lost. She went to the
 janitor&rsquo;s shed and got a large, long-handled wooden ladle used for watering the
 garden. The handle was almost twice as long as she was, but that did not deter her in
 the least. She went around with it to the back of the school and tried to find the
 opening through which the cesspool was emptied. She imagined it would be on the
 outside wall of the toilet, but after searching in vain she finally noticed a round
 concrete manhole cover about a yard away. Lifting it off with difficulty, she
 discovered an opening that was undoubtedly the one she was looking for. She put her
 head inside.
 &ldquo;Why, it&rsquo;s as big as the pond at Kuhonbutsu!&rdquo; she exclaimed.
 Then she began her task. She started ladling out the contents of the cesspool. At first
 she tried the area in which she had dropped the purse. But the tank was deep and
 dark and quite extensive, since it served three separate toilets. Moreover, she was in
 danger of falling in herself if she put her head in too far, so she decided to just keep
 on ladling and hope for the best, emptying her ladle onto the ground around the hole.
 She inspected each ladleful, of course, to see if it contained the purse. She hadn&rsquo;t
 thought it would take her long to find, but there was no sign of the purse. Where
 could it be? The bell rang for the beginning of class.
 What should she do, she wondered, but having gone so far she decided to continue.
 She ladled with renewed vigor.
 There was quite a pile on the ground when the headmaster happened to pass by.
 &ldquo;What are you doing?&rdquo; he asked Totto-chan.
 &ldquo;I dropped my purse,&rdquo; she replied, as she went on ladling, not wanting to waste a
 moment.
 &ldquo;I see,&rdquo; said the headmaster, and walked away, his hands clasped behind his back as
 was his habit when he went for a stroll.
 2)