The headmaster must have heard about their complaints for he went over to the
 children with their carrots and radishes and things.
 &ldquo;What&rsquo;s the matter? Don&rsquo;t you want them?&rdquo; he asked. Then he went on, &ldquo;Get your
 mothers to cool them for you for dinner tonight. They&rsquo;re vegetable you earned
 yourselves. You have provided food for your families by your own efforts. How&rsquo;s
 that? I&rsquo;ll bet it tastes good!&rdquo;
 Of course, he was right. It was the first time in her life, for instance, that Totto-chan
 had ever provided anything for dinner.
 &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll get Mother to make spicy burdock!&rdquo; she told the headmaster.&ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t decided
 yet what to ask her to make with the onions.&rdquo;
 Whereupon the others all began thinking up menus, too, describing them to the
 headmaster.
 &ldquo;Good! So now you&rsquo;ve got the idea,&rdquo; he said, smiling so happily his cheeks became
 quite flushed. He was probably thinking how nice it would be if the children and
 their families ate the vegetables while talking over the Sports Day events.
 No doubt he was thinking especially of Takahashi-whose dinner table would be
 overflowing with First Prizes-and hoping the boy would remember his pride and
 happiness at winning those First Prizes before developing an inferiority complex
 about his size and the fact he would never grow. And maybe, who knows, the
 headmaster had thought up those singularly Tomoe-type events just so Takahashi
 would come first in them.
 The Poet Issa
 The children liked to call the headmaster &ldquo;Issa Kobayashi.&rdquo; They even made up
 affectionate verses about him like the following:
 Issa Kobayashi!
 Issa&rsquo;s our Old Man
 With his bald head!
 That was because the headmaster&rsquo;s family name was Kobayashi, the same as that of
 the famous nineteenth-century poet Issa Kobayashi, whose haiku he loved. He
 quoted Issa&rsquo;s haiku so often, the children felt as if Issa Kobayashi was just as much
 their friend as Sosaku Kobayashi, their headmaster.
 The headmaster loved Issa&rsquo;s haiku because they were so true and dealt with the
 ordinary things in life. At a time when there must have been thousands of haiku
 poets, Issa created a world of his own that nobody was able to imitate. The
 headmaster admired his verses with their almost childlike simplicity. So at every
 opportunity, he would teach his pupils verses by Issa, which they would learn by
 heart, such as
 Lean Frog,
 51