never imagined the book would have the impact it did. Perhaps it is an indication of
 how deeply people throughout Japan are concerned about the state of education
 today.
 To children it is a storybook. The many replies from readers polled indicate that in
 spite of all the difficult words in it, children from the age of seven are reading my
 book with the aid of a dictionary. I can&rsquo;t tell you how happy this makes me. A
 Japanese literature scholar, aged one hundred and three, wrote, &ldquo;I enjoyed it
 immensely.&rdquo; But far more remarkable is the fact that young children are actually
 reading it looking up the difficult words when comics and picture books are all the
 rage and youngsters are said to be no longer interested in the written word;
 After the book appeared, I was deluged with requests from film, television, theater,
 and film animation companies for permission to produce my story in their various
 mediums. But since so many people had read the book and already formed their own
 mental images, I felt it would be difficult to improve on their imagination no matter
 how brilliant the director, so I turned them all down.
 But I did agree to an orchestral interpretation because music gives free rein to
 fantasy. I asked Akihiro Komori--well known for his beautiful music-&mdash;to undertake
 the composition. The symphonic tale Totto-chan: The Little Girl at the Window, for
 which I did the narration, was a brilliant success, filling the hall alternately with
 laughter and tears. A record has been made of it.
 The book has now also become official teaching material. with the approval of the
Ministry of Education, the chapter &ldquo;The Farming Teacher&rdquo; will be used in third grade
 Japanese language studies starting next year, and the chapter &ldquo;Shabby Old School&rdquo; in
 fourth grade ethics and manners classes. Many teachers are already using the book in
 their own way. In art classes, for instance, I hear teachers are reading children one of
 the chapters and then having them draw pictures of what impressed them most.
 I have been able to realize my long-cherished dream of founding Japan&rsquo;s first
 professional theater of the deaf, thanks to royalties from the book&mdash;for which I
 received the Non-Fiction Prize as well as three other awards. For services to society,
 I recently had the honor of being invited, together with many distinguished guests,
 including Nobel Prizewinner for Chemistry Ken&rsquo;ichi Fukui, to the emperor&rsquo;s spring
 garden party, where I was privileged to have a very pleasant conversation with His
 Majesty. And last year, I received a commendation from the prime minister to
 commemorate the International Year of Disabled Persons. The book I wanted to
 write so much brought all these happy events to pass.
 Finally, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to Dorothy Britton for translating
 my book into English. I am very fortunate to have found such a splendid translator.
 The fact that she is both a musician and a poet has enabled her to put my text into
 English that has both rhythm and sensitivity and is a delight to read.
 Yes, one thing more. I would also like to thank Broadway composer Harold Rome
 and his author wife, Florence. I had only completed the first chapter when they began
 urging me to publish my story in English.
 TETSUKO KUROYANAGI, Tokyo, 1982
 101