There was a jingle--a sort of singsong refrain&mdash;that was popular among elementary
 school children. They did it a lot at her previous school. As the children went home
 after school, they would go out the gate looking back over their shoulders at their
 school and chant:
 Akamatsu School&rsquo;s a shabby old school;
 Inside though, it&rsquo;s a splendid school!
 When children from some other school happened to pass by, these pupils would
 point their fingers at Akamatsu School and chant:
 Akamatsu School&rsquo;s a splendid school;
 Inside though, it&rsquo;s a shabby old school!
 And they would end by making a rude noise.
 Whether a school was shabby or splendid in the first line depended on whether the
 building was old or new. The important part of the chant was the second line. The
 part that said what the school was like inside. So it didn&rsquo;t really matter if the first line
 said your school was shabby on the outside. It was what it was like inside that
 mattered. The jingle was always chanted by at least five or six children together.
 One afternoon after school the Tomoe pupils were playing as usual. They could do
 anything they liked until the final bell, when they had to leave the school grounds.
 The headmaster thought it was important for children to have time when they were
 free to do whatever they liked, so this period after classes were over was longer than
 at other elementary schools. That day some were playing ball, some had made
 themselves all dirty playing on the iron bars or in the sandbox, some were tending
 the flower beds, some of the older girls were just sitting on the steps chatting, and
 some were climbing trees. They were all doing just what they wanted. Among them
 were a few, like Tai-chan, who had stayed behind in the classroom to continue a
 physics experiment and were boiling flasks and doing experiments in test tubes.
 There were children in the library reading, and Amadera, who liked animals, was
 scrutinizing a stray cat he had found, turning it on its back and examining inside its
 ears. They were all enjoying themselves in their own ways.
 Suddenly, a loud chant was heard outside the school:
 Tomoe School is a shabby old school;
 Inside, too, it&rsquo;s a shabby old school!
 &ldquo;That&rsquo;s terrible,&rdquo; thought Totto-chan. She happened to be right by the gate. Well, it
 wasn&rsquo;t really a gate, as it had leaves growing out of the posts. But at any rate, she
 heard them very clearly. It was too much. Imagine calling their school shabby both
 inside and out! She was indignant. The others were indignant, too, and came running
 toward the gate.
 &ldquo;Shabby old school!&rdquo; reiterated the boys from the other school, as they ran off
 making rude noises.
 72