way. Luckily, because it was treated in time, the doctor was able to fasten the ear
 back, just as it was before, to her parents&rsquo; great relief. But the only thing Totto-chan
 was concerned about, however, was whether Mother and Daddy would keep their
 promise not to scold Rocky.
 Totto-chan went home all bandaged from the top of her head to her chin, looking just
 like a white rabbit. In spite of his promise not to scold Rocky, Daddy felt very
 inclined to admonish the dog in some way. But Mother gave him a look with her
 eyes as much as to say, &ldquo;Please keep your promise,&rdquo; and Daddy reluctantly did so.
 Totto-chan rushed into the house, anxious to let Rocky know, as soon as possible,
 that everything was all right, and nobody was cross any more. But she couldn&rsquo;t find
 Rocky anywhere. For the first time Totto-chan cried. She hadn&rsquo;t cried at the doctor&rsquo;s,
 she had been so afraid that if she did, it would increase her parents&rsquo; anger with the
 dog. But there was no stopping her tears now. As she cried, she called, &lsquo;&ldquo;Rocky!
 Rocky! Where are you!&rdquo;
 After calling several more times, her tear-stained face lifted into a smile as a familiar
 brown back emerged slowly from behind the sofa. Going up to Totto-chan, he gently
 licked the good ear that was just visible among the bandages. Totto-chan put her
 arms around Rocky&rsquo;s neck and sniffed inside his ears. Mother and Daddy used to say
 they were smelly, but how she loved that dear familiar odor.
 Rocky and Totto-chan were tired and very sleepy.
 The end-of-summer moon looked down from above the garden on the little bandaged
 girl and the dog who never wanted to play &ldquo;wolf&rsquo; again. The two were even better
 friends now than they had been before.
 Sports Day
 Tomoe&rsquo;s Sports Day was held every year on the third of November. The headmaster
 had decided on that day after a lot of research, in which he found out that the third of
 November was the autumn day on which it had rained the fewest times. Perhaps it
 was due to his skill in collecting weather data, or perhaps it was just that the sun and
 clouds heeded his desire--that no rain should mar the Sports Day so anticipated by
 the children, who had decorated the school grounds the day before and made all sorts
 of preparations. Whatever it was, it was almost uncanny the way it never rained on
 that day.
 As all kinds of things were done differently at Tomoe, its Sports Day, too, was
 unique. The only sports events that were the same as at other elementary schools
 were the Tug of War and the Three Legged Race. All the rest had been invented by
 the headmaster. Requiring no special or elaborate equipment, they made use of
 familiar everyday school things.
 For instance, there was the Carp Race. Large tubular cloth streamers, shaped and
 painted like carp-the kind that are flown from poles in May for Boys&rsquo; Day Festival--
 were laid in the middle of the school grounds. At the signal, the children had to start
 running toward the carp streamers and crawl through them from the mouth end to the
 tail end and then run back to the starring point. There were only three carp one red
 48