The Tomoe students assembled at the school on the appointed day before setting off.
 &ldquo;Now then,&rdquo; said the headmaster when they were all together. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re traveling by
 train and by ship, and I don&rsquo;t want any of you to get lost. Do you understand! All
 right, off we go!&rdquo;
 That was the only instruction he gave, yet when they got on the Toyoko train at
 Jiyugaoka, the children were amazingly well behaved. Nobody ran up and down the
 cars, and the only talking was done quietly among those sitting next to each other.
 The Tomoe pupils had never once been told they should get in line and walk properly
 and keep quiet on the train and not drop litter on the floor when they ate their food.
 Their daily school life had somehow instilled into them that they mustn&rsquo;t push people
 smaller or weaker than themselves; that unruly behavior was something to be
 ashamed of; that whenever they came across litter they should pick it up; and that
 they should try not to do anything that annoyed or disturbed others. Strangest of all
 was that Totto-chan, who only a few months before had been upsetting her whole
 school by talking to street musicians out of the window in the middle of class, stayed
 at her desk and did her lessons properly from the very day she started at Tomoe. If
 any of the teachers from the other school could have seen her now, sitting properly
 with the others in the train, they would have said, &ldquo;It must be someone else!&rdquo;
 At Numazu they embarked on a ship that was just like what they had all dreamed
 about. It wasn&rsquo;t a big ship, but they were all so excited that they inspected every
 corner of the deck, feeling this or hanging from that. When it finally sailed, the
 children waved to the townsfolk on the pier. They hadn&rsquo;t gone far before it started to
 rain, however, and they had to go inside. Soon the sea became very rough. Totto-
 chan began to feel ill, as did some others. But just then, one of the older boys got up
 and stood amidships, pretending to be a stabilizer. When the ship rolled he would run
 to one side, saying &ldquo;Oops!&rdquo; Then he would run the other way with another &ldquo;Oops!&rdquo; It
 was so funny the children couldn&rsquo;t help laughing even though they felt so seasick,
 and they were still laughing when the ship arrived at Toi. The curious thing was that
 after they disembarked, the poor &ldquo;Oops&rdquo; boy began to feel sick just when everyone
 else had recovered and was feeling fine!
 Toi Spa was in a quiet, beautiful village on the sea surrounded by wooded hills. After
 a short rest the teachers took the children down to the sea. It wasn&rsquo;t like the
 swimming pool at school so they wore their swimsuits.
 The hot spring in the sea was most unusual. It was not enclosed so there was no line
 to set off the hot spring from the rest of the sea. If you crouched down where you
 were told was the hot spring, the hot water came up to your neck and it felt lovely,
 just like being in a hot bath. If you wanted to go into the sea from the hot spring, all
 you had to do was move about fifteen feet sideways, and the water gradually got
 cooler. The further you went, the colder it got, and you knew you were in the sea. So,
 after you had been swimming about in the sea and began to feel cold, all you had to
 do was to hurry back to the hot spring and have a hot bath right up to your neck! I
 was just like at home. And it looked so funny. While the bathing-capped children
 were swimming about normally in the regular sea, the ores in the hot spring part
 were relaxing in a circle chatting just as if they were in a bath. Anyone watching
 would have thought, &ldquo;Why even youngsters act just like old people when they get in
 a hot spring bath.&rdquo;
 35