Kazuo Amadera
 Amadera, who loved animals, wanted to be a vet when he grew up and have a farm.
 Unfortunately, his father died suddenly, and he had to drastically alter the course of
 his life, leaving Nihon University School of Veterinary Medicine and Animal
 Husbandry to take a job at Keio Hospital. At present he is at the Central Hospital of
 the Self-Defense Force in a responsible position connected with clinical
 examination.
 Aiko Saisho (now Mrs. Tanaka)
 Aiko Saisho, whose great-uncle was Admiral Togo, transferred to Tomoe from the
 elementary school attached to Aoyama Gakuin. I used to think of her in those days as
 a very sedate and proper young lady. She probably seemed that way because she had
 lost her father--a major in the Third Guards Regiment --&mdash;who was killed during the
 Manchurian Incident.
 After graduating from Kamakura Girls&rsquo; High School, Aiko married an architect. Now
 that both her sons are grown and in business, she spends much of her leisure writing
 poetry.
 &ldquo;So you&rsquo;re carrying on the tradition of your famous aunt who was a poetess laureate
 at Emperor Meiji&rsquo;s court?&rdquo; I said.
 &ldquo;Oh, no!&rdquo; she replied, with an embarrassed laugh.
 &ldquo;You&rsquo;re as modest as you were at Tomoe,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;and as ladylike.&rdquo; To which she
 ventured by way of reply, &ldquo;You know, my figure&rsquo;s the same now as when I played
 Benkei!&rdquo;
 Her voice made me think what a warm, happy household hers must be.
 Keiko Aoki (now Mrs. Kuwabara)
 Keiko-chan, who had the chickens that could fly, is now married to a teacher at Keio
 University&rsquo;s elementary school. She has a married daughter.
 Yoichi Migita
Migita, the boy who kept promising to bring those funeral dumplings, took a degree
 in horticulture, but he had always liked drawing so he went back to college and
 graduated from Musashino College of Fine Arts. Now he runs his own graphic
 design company.
 Ryo-chan
 Ryo-chan, the janitor, who went off to war, came home safe and sound. He never
 fails to attend the Tomoe reunions every November third.
 105