The children looked on earnestly.
 &ldquo;Heave-ho, heave-ho,&rdquo; chanted the workmen as they toiled, and the sun itself seemed 
 to be rising in time to their rhythmic cries.
 Like the other six already at the school, this car, which had carried so many people,
 had its wheels removed. Its traveling life was over. From now on it would carry the
 sound of children&rsquo;s laughter.
 As the boys and girls stood there in the morning sunshine in their pajamas, they were
 so happy they couldn&rsquo;t contain their joy and kept jumping up and down, clasping the
 headmaster around the neck and swinging from his arms.
 Staggering under the onslaught, the headmaster smiled happily. Seeing his joy, the
 children smiled, too.
 And none of them ever forgot how happy they were.
 The Swimming Pool
 That was a red-letter day for Totto-chan. It was the first time she had ever swum in a
 pool. And without a stitch on!
 It happened in the morning. The headmaster said to them all, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s become quite hot
 all of a sudden, so I think I&rsquo;ll fill the pool.&rdquo;
 &ldquo; Wow!&rdquo; everybody cried, jumping up and down. Totto-chan and the first grade
 children cried &ldquo;Wow&rdquo; too, and jumped up and down with even greater excitement
 than the older students. The pool at Tomoe was not rectangular like most pools, as
 one end was narrower than the other. It was shaped pretty much like a boat. The lay
 of the land probably had something to do with it. But nonetheless; the pool was a
 large and splendid one. It was situated between the classrooms and the Assembly
 Hall.
 All during their lessons, Totto-chan and the others kept stealing glances out of the
 windows at the pool. When empty it had been littered with fallen leaves just like the
 playground. But now that it was clean and beginning to fill up, it started to look like
 a real swimming pool.
 Lunchtime finally arrived, and when the children were all gathered around the pool,
 the headmaster said, &lsquo;&lsquo;We&rsquo;ll do some exercises and then have a swim.&rsquo;&rdquo;
 &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t I need a swimsuit to go swimming?&rdquo; thought Totto-chan. When she went to
 Kamakura with Mother and Daddy, she took a swimsuit, a rubber ring, and all sorts
 of things. She tried to remember if the teacher had asked them to bring swimsuits.
 Then, just as if he had read her thoughts, the headmaster said, &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t worry about
 swimsuits. Go and look in the Assembly Hall.&rdquo;
 When Totto-chan and the other first graders got to the Assembly Hall the bigger
 children were taking off their clothes with shrieks of delight as if they were going to
 have a bath. They ran our, one after the other, stark naked, into the school grounds.
 25