I like to believe that the period I was there when Mr. Kobayashi&rsquo;s enthusiasm was at
 its height and his schemes in full flower. But when I think how many children could
 have-come under his care had there been no war, I am saddened at the waste.
 I have tried to describe Mr. Kobayashi&rsquo;s educational methods in this book. He
 believed all children are born with an innate good nature, which can be easily
 damaged by their environment and the wrong adult influences. His aim was to
 uncover their &ldquo;good nature&rdquo; and develop it, so that the children would grow into
 people with individuality.
 Mr. Kobayashi valued naturalness and wanted to let children&rsquo;s characters develop as
 naturally as possible. He loved nature, too. His younger daughter, Miyo-chan, told
 me her father used to take her for walks when she was small, saying, &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s go and
 look for the rhythms in nature.&rdquo;
 He would lead her to a large tree and show her how the leaves and branches swayed
 in the breeze; he would point out the relationship between the leaves, the branches,
 and the trunk; and how the swaying of the leaves differed according to whether the
 wind was strong or weak. They would stand still and observe things like that, and if
 there was no wind, they would wait patiently, with upturned faces, for the slightest
 zephyr. They observed not only the wind, but rivers, too. They used to go to the
 nearby Tama River and watch the water flowing. They never tired of doing things
 like that, she told me.
 Readers may wonder how the authorities in war time Japan allowed such an
 unconventional elementary school to exist, where studies were carried out in such an
 atmosphere of freedom. Mr. Kobayashi hated publicity, and even before the war did
 not allow photographs of the school or any publicity about its unconventionality.
 That may have been one reason this small school of under fifty pupils escaped notice
 and managed to continue. Another was that Mr. Kobayashi was highly regarded at
 the Ministry of Education as an educator of children.
 Every November third--the day of those wonderful Sports Days of fond memory--the
 pupils of Tomoe, regardless of when they graduated, get together in a room in
 Kuhonbutsu Temple for a happy reunion. Although we are all in our forties now--
 many of us are nearing fifty--and have grown children of our own, we still call each
 other by our nicknames just as in the old days. These reunions are one of the many
 happy legacies Mr. Kobayashi left us.
 It is true that I was expelled from my first elementary school. I do not remember
 much about that school--my mother told me about the street musicians and the desk.
 I found it hard to believe I had been expelled. Could I really have been as naughty as
 all that! However, five years ago I took part in a morning television show in which I
 was introduced to someone who had known me at that time. She turned out to be the
 homeroom teacher of the class next to mine. I was dumbfounded at what she told me.
 &ldquo;You were in the room right next to mine,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;and when I had to go to the
 faculty room during class, I usually found you standing in the corridor for some
 misdemeanor. As I went past, you always stopped me and asked me why you&rsquo;d been
 made to stand out there, and what you had done wrong. &lsquo;Don&rsquo;t you like street
 musicians!&rsquo; you asked me once. I never knew how to deal with you, so finally, even
 97