as that one. Totto-chan always spent the summer with her cousins at their house in
 Kamakura, but this year it had been different. An older boy, a relative who used to
 tell them scary ghost stories, had been called up and had gone to the war. So there
 were no more ghost stories. And her uncle who used to tell them such interesting
 tales about his life in America--they never knew whether they were true or not--was
 at the front. His name was Shuji Taguchi, and he was a top-ranking cameraman.
 After serving as bureau chief of Nihon News in New York and as Far East
 representative of American Metro-News, he was better known as Shu Taguchi. He
 was Daddy&rsquo;s elder brother, though Daddy had taken his mother&rsquo;s family name in
 order to perpetuate it. Otherwise Daddy&rsquo;s surname would have been Taguchi, too.
 Films Uncle Shuji had shot, such as &ldquo;The Battle of Rabaul,&rdquo; were being shown at
 movie theaters, but all he sent from the front were his films, so Totto-chan&rsquo;s aunt and
 cousins were worried about him. War photographers always showed the troops in
 dangerous positions, so they had to be ahead of the troops to show them advancing.
 That was whet Totto-chan&rsquo;s grown-up relatives had been saying.
 Even the beach at Kamakura somehow seemed forlorn that summer. Yat-chan was
 funny, though, in spite of it all. He was Uncle Shuji&rsquo;s eldest son. Yat-chan was about
 a year younger than Totto-chan. The children all slept together under one large
 mosquito net, and before he went to sleep, Yat-chan used to shout &ldquo;Long Live the
 Emperor!&rdquo; then fall like a soldier who had been shot and pretend to be dead. He
 would do it over and over again. The funny thing was that whenever he did this, he
 invariably walked in his sleep and fell off the porch causing a great fuss.
 Totto-chan&rsquo;s mother had stayed in Tokyo with Daddy, who had work to do. Now that
 summer vacation was over, Totto-chan had been brought back to Tokyo by the sister
 of the boy who used to tell ghost stories.
 As usual on arriving at home, the first thing Totto-chan did was look for Rocky. But
 he was nowhere to be found. He wasn&rsquo;t in the house and he wasn&rsquo;t in the garden. Nor
 was he in the greenhouse where Daddy grew orchids. Totto-chan was worried, since
 Rocky normally came out to meet her long before she even reached the house. Totto-
 chan went out of the house and down the road, calling his name, but there was no
 sign of those beloved eyes, ears, or tail. Totto-chan thought he might have gone back
 while she was out looking for him, so she hurriedly ran home to see. But he wasn&rsquo;t
 there.
 &ldquo;Where&rsquo;s Rocky?&rdquo; she asked Mother.
 Mother must have known Totto-chan was running everywhere looking for Rocky,
 but she didn&rsquo;t say a word.
 &ldquo;Where&rsquo;s Rocky?&rdquo; Totto-chan asked again, pulling Mother&rsquo;s skirt.
 Mother seemed to find it difficult to reply. &ldquo;He disappeared,&rdquo; she said.
 Totto-chan refused to believe it. How could he have disappeared? &ldquo;When?&rdquo; she
 asked, looking Mother in the face.
 91