After a lot of thought and a good look around, Totto-chan decided to sit next to the
 girl who had come after her that morning because the girl was wearing a pinafore
 with a long-eared rabbit on it.
 The most unusual thing of all about this school, however, was the lessons
 themselves.
 Schools normally schedule one subject, for example, Japanese, the first period, when
 you just do Japanese; then, say, arithmetic the second period, when you just do
 arithmetic. But here it was quite different. At the beginning of the first period, the
 teacher made a list of all the problems and questions in the subjects to be studied that
 day. Then she would say, &ldquo;Now, start with any of these you like.&rdquo;
 So whether you started on Japanese or arithmetic or something else didn&rsquo;t matter at
 all. Someone who liked composition might be writing something, while behind you
 someone who liked physics might be boiling something in a flask over an alcohol
 burner, so that a small explosion was liable to occur in any of the classrooms.
 This method of teaching enabled the teachers to observe--as the children progressed
 to higher grades --what they were interested in as well as their way of thinking and
 their character. It was an ideal way for teachers to really get to know their pupils.
 As for the pupils, they loved being able to start with their favorite subject, and the
 fact that they had all day to cope with the subjects they disliked meant they could
 usually manage them somehow. So study was mostly independent, with pupils free
 to go and consult the teacher whenever necessary. The teacher would come to them,
 too, if they wanted, and explain any problem until it was thoroughly understood.
 Then pupils would be given further exercises to work at alone. It was study in the
 truest sense of the word, and it meant there were no pupils just sitting inattentively
 while the teacher talked and explained.
 The first grade pupils hadn&rsquo;t quite reached the stage of independent study, but even
 they were allowed to start with any subject they wanted.
 Some copied letters of the alphabet, some drew pictures, some read books, and some
 even did calisthenics. The girl next to Totto-chan already knew all her alphabet and
 was writing it into her notebook. It was all so unfamiliar that Totto-chan was a bit
 nervous and unsure what to do.
 Just then the boy sitting behind her got up and walked toward the blackboard with his
 notebook, apparently to consult the teacher. She sat at a desk beside the blackboard
 and was explaining something to another pupil. Totto-chan stopped looking around
 the room and, with her chin cupped in her hands, fixed her eyes on his back as he
 walked. The boy dragged his leg, and his whole body swayed dreadfully. Totto-chan
 wondered at first if he was doing it on purpose, but she soon realized the boy couldn&rsquo;t
 help it.
 Totto-chan went on watching him as the boy came back to his desk. Their eyes met.
 The boy smiled. Totto-chan hurriedly smiled back. when he sat down at the desk
 behind her-&mdash;it took him longer than other children to sit down--she turned around and
 asked, &ldquo;why do you walk like that?&rdquo;
 12