Talking with Your Hands
 One afternoon, near the ticket gate at Jiyugaoka Station, two boys and one girl
 slightly older than Totto-chan were standing together, looking as if they were playing
 &ldquo;stone, paper, scissors.&rdquo; But she noticed they were making a lot more signs with their
 fingers than usual. What fun it looked! She went closer so she could get g better
 view. They seemed to be holding a conversation without making a sound. One would
 make a lot of signs with his hands, then another who was watching would
 immediately make a lot more different signs. Then the third would do a few, and they
 would all burst out laughing, without making much sound. They seemed to be
 enjoying themselves. After watching them for some time, Totto-chan came to the
 conclusion they were talking with their hands.
 &ldquo;I wish I could talk with my hands, too,&rdquo; she thought enviously. She considered
 going over and joining them, but she didn&rsquo;t know how to ask them with her hands.
 And besides, they weren&rsquo;t Tomoe students, so it might be rude, so she just went on
 watching them until they left for the Toyoko train platform.
 &ldquo;Someday I&rsquo;m going to learn how to talk to people with my hands,&rdquo; she decided.
 But Totto-chan didn&rsquo;t know yet about deaf people, or that those children went to the
 municipal deaf and dumb school in Oimachi, the last stop of the train she took to
 school each day.
 Totto-chan just thought there was something rather beautiful about the way those
 children watched each other&rsquo;s fingers with shining eyes, and she wanted to make
 friends with them someday.
 The Forty Seven Ronin
 While Mr. Kobayashi&rsquo;s system of education was unique, he had been influenced a
 great deal by ideas from Europe and other foreign countries, as we can see from
 Tomoe&rsquo;s eurythmics, its mealtime customs, its school walks, and the lunchtime song
 that was sung to the tune of &ldquo;Row, Row, Row Your Boat.&rdquo;
 The headmaster&rsquo;s right-hand man--at an ordinary school he would be the vice-
 principal--Mr. Maruyama, was in many ways the exact opposite of Mr. Kobayashi.
 Like his name, meaning &ldquo;round hill,&rdquo; his head was completely round, without a
 single hair on top, but with a fringe of white hair at the back at ear level. He wore
 round glasses, and his cheeks were bright red. He not only looked quite different
 from Mr. Kobayashi, but he used to recite classical Chinese-style poems in a solemn
voice.
 On the morning of December fourteenth, when the children were all assembled at
 school, Mr. Maruyama made the following announcement:
 &ldquo;This is the day, nearly two and a half centuries ago, that the Forty-seven Ronin
 executed their famous vendetta. So we are going to walk to the temple of Sengakuji
 and pay our respects at their graves. Your parents have already been told.&rdquo;
 The headmaster did not oppose Mr. Maruyama&rsquo;s plan. What Mr. Kobayashi thought
 of it the parents didn&rsquo;t know, but they knew if he didn&rsquo;t oppose it, he must have
 55