person, sometimes a tree. All alone in the deserted playground she danced and
 danced.
 Deep in her heart, however, there was a tiny feeling that she would like to be playing
 Yoshitsune. But had they allowed her to, she would surely have hit and scratched
 Aiko Saisho.
 Thus it was that Totto-chan was not able to take part in the first and last amateur
 drama at Tomoe.
 Chalk
 Tomoe children never scrawled on other people&rsquo;s walls or on the road. That was
 because they had ample opportunity for doing it at school.
 During music periods in the Assembly Hall, the headmaster would give each child a
 piece of white chalk. They could lie or sit anywhere they liked on the floor and wait,
 chalk in hand. When they were all ready, the headmaster started playing the piano.
 As he did so, they would write the rhythms, in musical notation, on the floor. It was
 lovely writing in chalk on the shiny light brown wood. There were only about ten
 pupils in Totto-chan&rsquo;s class, so when they were spread around the large Assembly
 Hall, they had plenty of floor on which to write their notes as large as they wanted
 without encroaching on anyone else&rsquo;s space. They didn&rsquo;t need lines for their notation,
 since they just wrote down the rhythm. At Tomoe musical notes had special names
 the children devised themselves after talking it over with the headmaster. Here they
 Tc&rdquo;
 (musical symbol) was called a skip, because it was a good rhythm to skip and jump
 to.
 (musical symbol)was called a flag, because it looked like one.
 (musical symbol) was called a double-flag.
 (musical symbol) was called a black.
 (musical symbol) was called a white
 (musical symbol) was called a white-with-a-mole, or a white &rsquo;n&rsquo; dot.
 (musical symbol) was called a circle.
 This way they learned to know the notes well and it was fun. It was a class they
 loved.
 Writing on the floor with chalk was the head-master&rsquo;s idea. Paper wasn&rsquo;t big enough
 and there weren&rsquo;t enough blackboards to go around. He thought the Assembly Hall
 floor would make a nice big blackboard on which the children could note the rhythm
 with ease no matter how fast the music was, and writing as large as they liked,
 Above all, they could enjoy the music. And if there was time afterward, they could
 draw airplanes and dolls and anything they wanted. Sometimes the children would
 84