Some of Issa&rsquo;s haiku might have been written especially for Tomoe.
 The snow thaws--
 And suddenly the whole village is full of children!
Very Mysterious
 Totto-chan found some money for the first time in her life. It happened during the
 train ride going home from school. She got on the Oimachi train at Jiyugaoka. Before
 the train reached the next station, Midorigaoka, there was a sharp curve, and the train
 always leaned over with a great creaking. Totto-chan would brace herself with her
 feet so she wouldn&rsquo;t go &ldquo;Oops.&rdquo; She always stood by the right-hand door at the rear
 of the train, facing the way the train was going. She stood there because the platform
 at her own station was on the right-hand side and that door was nearest the exit.
 That day, as the train leaned over, creaking as usual as it went around the curve,
 Totto-chan noticed something that looked like money lying near her feet. She had
 picked up something once before that she thought was money but it turned out to be
 a button, so she thought she had better have a good look this time. When the train
 straightened out, she put her head right down and looked at it carefully. It was
 definitely money--a five-sen coin. She thought somebody nearby must have dropped
 it and it had come rolling toward her when the train leaned over. But nobody was
 standing anywhere near Totto-chan.
 What should she do, she wondered! Just then she remembered someone saying that
 when you found money, you should hand it to a policeman. But there wasn&rsquo;t a
 policeman on the train, was there?
 Just then, the conductor&rsquo;s compartment opened and the conductor entered the car in
 which Totto-chan was. Totto-chan herself didn&rsquo;t know what made her do it, but she
 put her right foot over the five-sen piece. The conductor knew her and smiled. But
 Totto-chan couldn&rsquo;t smile back whole heartedly because she felt guilty about what
 was under her right foot. All she could manage was a weak grin. At that moment the
 train stopped at Ookayama, the station before hers, and the doors on the left side
 opened. An unusual number of people got on and Totto-chan was pushed and jostled.
 Totto-chan had no intention of moving her right foot and desperately stood her
 ground. While doing so, she thought our her plan. When she got off the train she
 would take the money and hand it to a policeman. Then another thought occurred to
 her. If any grown-ups saw her pick up the coin from under her foot, they might think
 she was a thief! In those days you could buy a small packet of caramels or a bar of
 chocolate for five sen. So while if wouldn&rsquo;t seem like much of a sum to a grown-up,
 it was a large amount of money as far as Totto-chan was concerned, and she became
 quite worried about it.
 &ldquo;That&rsquo;s it!&rdquo; she said to herself &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll say quietly, &ldquo;Oh, I&rsquo;ve dropped some money. I
 must pick it up. Then everyone&rsquo;s bound to think it&rsquo;s mine!&rdquo;
 But immediately another problem occurred to her, &ldquo;What if I say that and everyone
 looks at me and someone says, &lsquo;&ldquo;That&rsquo;s mine!&rsquo; What will I do?&rdquo;
 53