moved. I am hoping Karuhiko Sano, my producer, will write his book soon to tell the
 world a great deal more about this remarkable man.
 Twenty years ago an enterprising young Kodansha editor noticed an essay I had
 written about Tomoe in a women&rsquo;s magazine. He came to see me, armed with a great
 many pads of paper, asking me to expand the material into a book. I guiltily used the
 paper for something else, and the young man became a director before his idea
 materialized. But it was he, Katsuhisa Kato, who gave me the idea-and the
 confidence--to do it. Not having written much then, a whole book seemed daunting.
 In the end, I was induced to write a chapter at a time as a series of articles for
 Kodansha&rsquo;s Young Woman magazine, which I did from February 1979 to December
 1980.
 Every month I would visit the Chihiro Jwasaki Museum of Picture Books in Shimo-
 shakuji, Nerimaku, Tokyo, to select an illustration. Chihiro Jwasaki was a genius at
 depicting children, and I doubt if any artist anywhere in the world could draw
 children in as lively a way as she. She captured them in their myriad moods and
 attitudes and could differentiate between a baby of six months and one of nine. I
 cannot tell you how happy I am to have been able to use her drawings for my book. It
 is quite uncanny how well they fit my narrative. She died in 1974, but people
 constantly ask me whether I started writing my book while she was still alive, which
 shows how true to life her paintings are and the tremendous variety of ways in which
 she depicted children.
 Chihiro Jwasaki left nearly seven thousand pictures, and I was privileged to see a
 great many of her original paintings through the kindness of her son, who is assistant
 curator of the museum, and his wife. I extend my gratitude to the artist&rsquo;s husband for
 per- mission to reproduce her work. I am also grateful to playwright Tadasu lizawa,
 curator of the museum, of which I am now a trustee, who kept urging me to start
 writing when I procrastinated
Miyo-chan and all my Tomoe friends were naturally a tremendous help. Heartfelt
 thanks, too, to my editor of the Japanese edition, Keiko Iwamoto, who kept saying,
 &ldquo;We must make this a really splendid book!&rdquo;
 I got the idea for the Japanese title from an expression popular a few years ago that
 referred to people being &ldquo;over by the window&rsquo;&rsquo;, meaning they were on the hinge or
 out in the cold. Although I used to stand at the window out of choice, hoping to see
 the street musicians, I truly felt &lsquo;&ldquo;over by the window&rsquo;&rdquo; at that first school--alienated
 and very much out in the cold. The title has these overtones, as well as one more--the
 window of happiness that finally opened for me at Tomoe.
 Tomoe is no longer. But if it lives for a little while in your imagination as you read
 this book, nothing could give me greater joy.
 Many things have happened during the year that has elapsed between the publication
 of this book in Japanese and its appearance in English. First of all, the book became
 an unexpected best seller. Little Totto-chan made Japanese publishing history by
 selling 4,500,000 copies in a single year. Next, I was amazed to find it being read as
 an educational textbook. I had hoped it would be instructive for schoolteachers and
 young mothers to know that there was once a headmaster like Mr. Kobayashi. But I
 100