&ldquo;Let&rsquo;s begin then,&rdquo; said the farming teacher.
 The place where they were assembled was besides the Kuhonbutsu pond and it was a
 particularly quiet section--a pleasant place, where the pond was shaded by trees. The
 headmaster had already had part of a railroad car put there for storing the children&rsquo;s
 farming implements, such as spades and hoes. The half-car had a peaceful look,
 neatly placed as it was right in the middle of the plot they were going to cultivate.
 The farming teacher told the children to spades and hoes from the car and started
 them on weeding. He told them all about weeds: how hardy they were; how some
 grew faster than crops and hid the sun from them; how weeds were good hiding
 places for bad insects; and how weeds could be a nuisance by taking all the
 nourishment from the soil. He taught them one thing after another. And while he
 talked, his hands never stopped pulling out weeds. The children did the same. Then
 the teacher showed them how to hoe; how to make furrows; how to spread fertilizer;
 and everything else you had to do to grow things in a field, explaining as he
 demonstrated.
 A little snake put its head out and very nearly bit the hand of Ta-chan, one of the
 older boys, but the farming teacher reassured him, &ldquo;The snakes here ain&rsquo;t poisonous,
 and they won&rsquo;t hurt you if you don&rsquo;t hurt them.&rdquo;
 Besides teaching the children how to plant a field, the farming teacher told them
 interesting things about insects, birds, and butterflies, about the weather, and about
 all sorts of other things. His strong gnarled hands seemed to attest that everything he
 told the children, he had found out himself through experience.
 The children were dripping with perspiration when they had finally finished planting
 the field with the teacher&rsquo;s help. Except for a few furrows that were a bit uneven, it
 was an impeccable field, whichever way you looked at it.
 From that day onward, the children held that farmer in high esteem, and whenever
 they saw him, even at a distance, they would cry, &ldquo;There&rsquo;s our farming teacher!&rdquo;
 Whenever he had any fertilizer left he would bring it over and spread it on the
 children&rsquo;s field, and their crops grew well. Every day someone would visit the field
 and report to the head-master and the other children on how it was doing. The
 children learned to know the wonder and the joy of seeing the seeds they had planted
 themselves sprout. And whenever two or three of them were gathered together, talk
 would turn to the progress of their field.
 Terrible things were beginning to happen in various parts of the world. But as the
 children discussed their tiny field - they were still enfolded in the very heart of peace.
Field Kitchen
 One day, after school Was over, Totto-chan went out the gate without speaking to
 anyone or even saying goodbye and hurried to Jiyugaoka Station, muttering to
 herself over and over, &ldquo;Thunder canyon field kitchen, thunder canyon field
 kitchen...&rdquo;&rdquo;
 67