&ldquo;Well; I&rsquo;d better go and bring back the rest of the ghosts,&rdquo; said Mr. Maruyama, the
 fifth grade home-room teacher, setting off. He rounded up ghosts he found standing
 bewildered under street lights, and ghosts who had been so frightened they had gone
 home. He brought them all back to the school.
 After that night Tomoe students weren&rsquo;t frightened of ghosts any more. For, after all,
 even ghosts themselves get frightened, don&rsquo;t they?
 The Rehearsal Hall
 Totto-chan walked sedately. Rocky walked sedately, too, looking up at Totto-chan
 from time to time. That could only mean one thing: they were on their way to peek in
 at Daddy&rsquo;s rehearsal hall. Normally, Totto-chan would be running as fast as she
 could, or walking this way and that looking for something he had dropped, or going
 across other people&rsquo;s gardens, one after the other, ducking under their fences.
 Daddy&rsquo;s rehearsal hall was about a five-minute walk from their house. He was the
 concertmaster of an orchestra, and being a concertmaster meant he played the violin.
 Once when she was taken to a concert, what had intrigued Totto-chan was that after
 the people had all finished clapping, the perspiring conductor turned toward the
 audience, got down from his podium, and shook hands with Daddy who had been
 playing the violin, Then Daddy stood up, and all the rest of the orchestra stood up,
 tool
 &ldquo;Why did they shake hands?&rdquo; Totto-chan had whispered.
 &ldquo;The conductor wants to thank the orchestra for having played so well, so he shook
 hands with Daddy as the representative of the orchestra as a way of saying thank
 you,&rdquo; explained Mother.
 The reason Totto-chan liked going to the rehearsal hall was that, unlike school,
 where there were mostly children, here they were all grown-ups, and they played all
 sorts of instruments. Besides, the conductor, Mr. Rosenstock, spoke such funny
 Japanese.
 Josef Rosenstock, Daddy had told her, was a very famous conductor in Europe, but a
 man called Hitler was starting to do terrible things there, so Mr. Rosenstock had to
 escape and come all the way to Japan in order to continue to make music. Daddy said
 he greatly admired Mr. Rosenstock. Totto-chan didn&rsquo;t understand the world situation,
 but just at that time Hitler had started persecuting Jews. If it hadn&rsquo;t been for that,
 Rosenstock would never have come to Japan, and the orchestra that composer
 Koscak Yamada had founded would probably never have made such progress in the
 short time it did, through the efforts of this conductor of international standing.
 Rosenstock demanded of the orchestra the same level of performance he would have
 expected from a first-class orchestra in Europe. That&rsquo;s why Rosenstock always wept
 at the end of rehearsals.
 &ldquo;I try so hard and you don&rsquo;t respond.&rdquo;
 33