About The Book
 This engaging series of childhood recollections tells about an ideal school in Tokyo
 during World War II that combined learning with fun, freedom, and love. This
 unusual school had old railroad cars for classrooms, and it was run by an
 extraordinary man--its founder and headmaster, Sosaku Kobayashi --who was a firm
 believer in freedom of expression and activity.
 In real life, the Totto-chan of the book has become one of Japan&rsquo;s most popular
 television personalities - Tetsuko Kuroyanagi. She attributes her success in life to
 this wonderful school and its headmaster.
 The charm of this account has won the hearts of millions of people of all ages and
 made this book a runaway best seller in Japan, with sales hitting the 4.5 million mark
 in its first year.
 THE TRANSLATOR
 Dorothy Britton poet, writer, and composer&mdash;was born in Japan and educated in the
 U.S. and England. A pupil of Darius Milhaud, she is well known for her popular
 Capitol Records album Japanese Sketches in which Tetsuko Kuroyanagi&rsquo;s father is
 violin soloist. She is the author of the English libretto of the Japanese opera Yuzuru
 and of A Haiku Journey, a distinguished translation of the poet Basho&rsquo;s Narrow Road
 ta a Far Province.
 THE AUTHOR
Tokyo-born Tetsuko Kuroyanagi, voted Japan&rsquo;s most popular TV personality for five
 years running, studied opera singing at Tokyo College of Music but became an
 actress, soon winning a prestigious award for her radio and TV work. She spent
1972 in New York, studying acting and writing From New York with Love. Since
1975 she has hosted &lsquo;&ldquo;Tetsuko&rsquo;s Room,&rsquo;&rdquo; Japan&rsquo;s first daily TV talk show, recently
 awarded the highest TV prize. This and her other regular TV shows all have top
 viewer ratings. Devoted to welfare, she twice brought America&rsquo;s National Theater of
 the Deaf to Japan, acting with them in sign language. The Totto-chan Foundation,
 financed by her book royalties, professionally trains deaf actors--with whom she
 often appears. Author of Panda and I, she is also a conservationist with a long-time
 interest in the Giant Panda, and is a director of the World Wildlife Fund Japan.
 106