&ldquo;UtsukuSHII is beautiful,&rdquo; Miyazaki said next, stressing the &ldquo;ku.&rdquo;
 &ldquo;UuukuSHII is beautiful,&rdquo; repeated the others.
Miyazaki then realized his Japanese pronunciation had been wrong. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s utsukuSHII,
 is it? Right?&rdquo;
Miyazaki and the other children soon became good friends. Every day he brought
 various books to Tomoe and read them to the others at lunchtime.
 It was just as if Miyazaki was their English tutor. At the same time Miyazaki&rsquo;s
 Japanese quickly improved. And he stopped making blunders like sitting in the
 tokonama, the alcove reserved for hanging-scrolls and ornaments.
 Totto-chan and her friends learned lots of things about America. Japan and America
 were becoming friends at Tomoe. But outside Tomoe, America had become an
 enemy, and since English had become an enemy language, it was dropped from the
 curriculum of all the schools.
 &ldquo;Americans are devils,&rdquo; the government announced. But at Tomoe the children kept
 chanting in chorus, &ldquo;Utsukushii is beautiful.&rdquo; And the breezes that blew across
 Tomoe were soft and warm, and the children themselves were beautiful.
Amateur Drama
 &ldquo;We&rsquo;re going to put on a play!&rdquo;
 It was the first play in Tomoe&rsquo;s history. The custom of someone giving a talk at
 lunchtime was still going on, but imagine performing a play on the little stage with
 the grand piano the headmaster always played for eurythmics and inviting an
 audience. None of the children had even seen a play, not even Totto-chan. Apart
 from Swan Lake, she had never once been to the theater. Nevertheless, they all
 discussed what sort of program they should put on for their end-of-year performance.
 Totto-chan&rsquo;s class decided to do Kanjincho &lsquo;The Fund-Raising Charter&rsquo;). This
 famous old Kabuki play was not exactly what you would expect to see at Tomoe, but
 it was in one of their textbooks and Mr. Maruyama would coach them. They decided
 Aiko Saisho would make a good Benkei, the strong man, since she was big and tall,
 and Amadera, who could look stern and had a loud voice, should play Togashi, the
 commander. After talking it over, they all came to the conclusion that Totto-chan
 should be the noble Yoshitsune, who, in the play, is disguised as a porter. All the
 others would be strolling monks.
 Before they could begin rehearsing, the children had to learn their lines. It was nice
 for Totto-chan and the monks, for they had nothing to say. All that the monks were
 required to do was stand silently throughout, while Totto-chan, as Yoshitsune, had
 to remain kneeling, with her face hidden by a large straw hat. Benkei, in reality
 Yoshitsune&rsquo;s servant, beats and upbraids his master in a clever attempt to get the part
 past the Ataka Checkpoint by posing as a band of monks collecting funds to restore a
 temple. Aiko Saisho, playing Benkei, had a tremendous part. Besides all the verbal
 thrust and parry with Togashi, the checkpoint commander, there was the exciting bit
 82