and two blue--so three children raced at a time. The race looked easy but was quite
 difficult. It was dark inside, and the carp were long, so you could easily lose your
 sense of direction. Some children, including Totto-chan, kept coming out of the
 mouth, only to realize their mistake and hurriedly burrow inside again. It was terribly
 funny to watch because the children crawling backward and forward inside made the
 carp wriggle as if they were alive.
 There was another event called Find-A-Mother Race. At the signal the children had
 to run toward a wooden ladder propped up on its side, crawl through it between the
 rungs, take an envelope from a basket, open it, and if the paper inside said, for
 instance, &ldquo;Sakko-chan&rsquo;s mother,&rdquo; they would have to find her in the crowd of
 spectators, take her hand, and return together to the finishing line. One had to ease
 oneself through the ladder with catlike grace or one&rsquo;s bottom could get stuck. Besides
 that, a child might know well enough who Sakko-chan&rsquo;s mother was, bur if the paper
 read &ldquo;Miss Oku&rsquo;s sister,&rdquo; or Mr. Tsue&rsquo;s mother,&rdquo; or Mrs. Kuninori&rsquo;s son,&rdquo; whom one
 had never met, one had to go to the spectators&rsquo; section and call in a loud voice, &ldquo;Miss
 Oku&rsquo;s sister!&rsquo;&rdquo;
 It took courage. Children who were lucky and picked their own mothers would jump
 up and down shouting, &ldquo;Mother! Mother! Hurry!&rdquo; The spectators, too, had to be alert
 for this event. There was no telling when their names might be called, and they
 would have to be ready to get up from the bench or from the mat where they were
 sitting, excuse themselves, and wend their way out as fast as they could to where
 someone&rsquo;s child was waiting, take his or her hand, and go running off. So when a
 child arrived and stopped in front of the grown-ups, even the fathers held their
 breath, wondering who was going to be called. There was little time for idle chit-chat
 or nibbling food. The grown-ups had to take part in events almost as much as the
 children.
 The headmaster and other teachers joined the children in the two teams for the Tug
 of War, pulling and shouting, &ldquo;Heave-ho, heave-ho!&rdquo; while handicapped children,
 like Yasuaki-chan, who couldn&rsquo;t pull, had the task of keeping their eyes on the hand-
 kerchief tied to the center of the rope to see who was winning.
 The final Relay Race involving the whole school was also different at Tomoe. No
 one had to run over, far. All one had to do was run up and down the semicircular
 flight of concrete steps leading to the Assembly Hall. At first glance it looked
 absurdly easy, but the steps were unusually shallow and close together, and as no one
 was allowed to take more than one step at a time, it was quite difficult if you were
 tall or had large feet. The familiar steps, bounded up each day at lunchtime, took on a
 fresh, fun aspect on Sports Day, and the children hurried up and down them
 shrieking gaily. To anyone watching from afar, the scene would have looked like a
 beautiful kaleidoscope. Counting the top one there were eight steps in all.
 The first Sports Day for Totto-chan and her classmates was a fine day just as the
 headmaster had hoped. The decorations of paper chains and gold stars made by the
 children the day before and the phonograph records of rousing marches made it seem
 like a festival.
 Totto-chan wore navy blue shorts and a -white blouse, although she would have
 preferred to wear athletic bloomers. She longed to wear them. One day after school
 49