&ldquo;Now then,&rdquo; said the headmaster, &ldquo;first of all, let&rsquo;s divide into groups and make
 stoves with the bricks the teachers have brought. Then some of you can wash the rice
 in the stream and put it on to cook. After that, we&rsquo;ll start making the pork soup. Now
 then, shall we get started?&rdquo;
 The children divided themselves into groups by playing &ldquo;stone, paper, scissors.&rdquo;
 Since there were only about fifty of them, it wasn&rsquo;t long before they had six groups.
 Holes were dug and surrounded with piled-up bricks. Then they laid thin iron bars
 across to support the soup and rice pots. While that was going on, some gathered
 firewood in the forest, and others went off to wash the rice in the stream. The
 children themselves allotted their various tasks. Totto-chan offered to cut up the
 vegetables and take charge of the pork soup. A boy two years senior to Totto-chan
 was also assigned to chopping vegetables, but he cut them into pieces that were
 either too big or too small and made a mess of the job. He labored manfully with the
 task, however, his nose glistening with perspiration. Totto-chan followed Mother&rsquo;s
 example and skillfully cut up the egg-plants, potatoes, onions, burdock roots, and so
 forth, that the children had brought, in just the right bite-sized pieces. She even took
 it upon herself to make some pickles by slicing egg plant and cucumber very thin and
 rubbing the slices with salt. She gave advice, too, to some of the older children who
 were having trouble with their chores. Totto-chan really felt as if she had already
 become a mother! Everyone was impressed with her pickles.
 &ldquo;Oh, I just thought I&rsquo;d try and see if I could make some,&rdquo; she declared modestly.
 When it came to flavoring the pork broth, everyone was asked for an opinion. From
 the various groups came startled cries of, &ldquo;Wow!&rdquo; &ldquo;Gee!&rdquo; and a great deal of
 laughter. The birds in the forest twittered, too, joining in the general uproar. In the
 meantime, tempting aromas rose from every pot. Until then, hardly any of the
 children had ever watched something cooking or had to regulate the heat. They had
 merely eaten what was put before them on the table. The joy of cooking something
 themselves, with its attendant traumas-and seeing the various changes the
 ingredients have to undergo--was a whole new experience to them.
 Eventually, the work at each group&rsquo;s makeshift stove was completed. The headmaster
 had the children make a space on the grass where they could all sit in a circle. One
 soup pot and one rice pot were placed in front of each group. But Totto-chan refused
 to have her group&rsquo;s soup pot taken away until she had first performed the action she
 had set her heart upon. Taking off the hot lid, she declared rather self-consciously,
 &ldquo;Ooh, that&rsquo;s hot!&rdquo; and put the fingers of both hands to her earlobes. Only then did she
 say, &ldquo;You can take it now,&rdquo; and the pot was duly carried over to where the children
 were sitting, wondering what on earth was going on. No one seemed at all impressed.
 But Totto-chan was satisfied all the same.
 Everyone&rsquo;s attention was fixed on the bowls of rice in front of them and the contents
 of the steaming soup bowls. The children were hungry. But first and foremost, it was
 a meal they had made themselves!
 After the children had sung, &ldquo;Chew, chew, chew it well, Everything you eat,&rdquo; and
 had said,&ldquo;I gratefully partake,&rdquo; all became quiet in the woods.
 There was no sound but that of the waterfall.
 69