The headmaster deplored contemporary education, with its emphasis on the written
 word, which tended to atrophy a child&rsquo;s sensual perception of nature and intuitive
 receptiveness to the still small voice of God, which is inspiration.
 It was the poet Basho who wrote:
 Listen! a frog
 Jumping into the silence
 Of an ancient pond!
 Yet the phenomenon of a frog jumping into a pond must have been seen by many
 others. Down through the ages and in the whole world, watt and Newton cannot
 have been the only ones to notice the steam from a boiling kettle or observe an apple
 fall.
 Having eyes, but not seeing beauty; having ears, but not hearing music; having
 minds, but not perceiving truth; having hearts that are never moved and therefore
 never set on fire. These are the things to fear, said the headmaster.
 As for Totto-chan, as she leaped and ran about in her bare feet, like Isadora Duncan,
 she was tremendously happy and could hardly believe that this was part of going to
 school!
 &lsquo;&ldquo;The Only Thing I Rant?&rdquo;
 It was the first time Totto-chan had ever been to a temple fair. In the middle of
 Senzoku Pond, near her former school, was a small island with a shrine dedicated to
 Benten, the goddess of beauty and music. On the right of the annual fair, as she
 walked along the dimly lit road with Mother and Daddy, the night was suddenly
 ablaze with lights as they reached the fair. Totto-chan poked her head inside each of
 the little stalls. There were strange sounds everywhere--squeaks and sizzles and
 pops--and all sorts of enticing aromas. Everything was new and strange.
 There were toy pipes, which you &ldquo;smoked&rdquo; by inhaling peppermint. They were
 decorated with pictures of cats and dogs and Betty Poop. There were lollipops and
 cotton candy. There were bamboo guns - tubes through which you pushed pieces of a
 certain kind of plant stem to make a loud pop.
 A man by the side of the road was swallowing swords and eating glass; and there
 was a man selling a sort of powder you rubbed on the rim of a bowl to make it
 resound. There were magic golden rings that made money disappear, and pictures
 that developed when exposed to sunlight, and paper flowers that blossomed when
 dropped in a glass of water. As she walked along, her eyes darting this way and that,
 Totto-chan suddenly stopped.
 &ldquo;Oh, look!&rdquo; she cried, seeing a box full of yellow baby chicks all cheeping away.
 &ldquo;I want one!&rdquo; she said, pulling Mother and Daddy over. &ldquo;Please buy me one! Please!&rdquo;
 39