While for six heats, the arms went:
 &ldquo;Down, around you, out in front, around you again, out to the sides, and up.&rsquo;&rdquo;
 So when the beat kept changing it was pretty difficult.
 What was even harder was when the headmaster would call out:
 &ldquo;Even if I change my tempo on the piano don&rsquo;t you change until I tell you to!&rdquo;
 Suppose they were walking in two-beat time and the music changed to three beats,
 the children had to keep on walking in duple time while heating the triple rhythm. It
 was very hard, but the headmaster said it was to cultivate the children&rsquo;s powers of
 concentration.
 Finally he would shout, &ldquo;You can change now!&rdquo;
 With relief, the children would immediately change to the triple rhythm. But that was
 when they had to be especially alert. In the time it took to mentally abandon the two
 beats and get the message to their muscles to adapt to three beats, the music might
 suddenly change to five-beat time! At first, their arms and legs were all over the
 place and there would be groans of &lsquo;&ldquo;Teacher, wait! wait!&rsquo;&rdquo; But with practice, the
 movements became pleasant to do, and the children even thought up variations and
 enjoyed themselves.
 Usually each child moved individually, but sometimes a pair would decide to act in
 unison, holding hands when the rhythm was in two-beat time; or they would try
 walking with their eyes closed. The only thing that was taboo was conversation.
 Sometimes, when there was a parent-Teacher Association meeting the mothers
 would peek in through the window. It was lovely to watch&mdash;each child moving arms
 and legs with ease, leaping about joyfully, in perfect time to the music.
 Thus, the purpose of eurythmics was first to train both mind and body to be
 conscious of rhythm, thereby achieving harmony between the spirit and the flesh,
 and finally awakening the imagination and promoting creativity.
 The day she arrived at the school for the very first time, Totto-chan had looked at the
 name on the gate and asked Mother, &ldquo;What does Tomoe mean?&rdquo;
 The tomoe is an ancient comma-shaped symbol, and for his school the headmaster
 had adopted the traditional emblem consisting of two tomoe - one black and one
 white--united to form a perfect circle.
 This symbolized his aim for the children: body and mind equally developed and in
 perfect harmony.
 The headmaster had included eurythmics in his school curriculum because he felt it
 was bound to have good results and help the children&rsquo;s personalities to grow
 naturally, without being affected by too much adult interference.
 38