&ldquo;This is your library,&rdquo; the headmaster said. &ldquo;Any of these books may be read by
 anyone. You needn&rsquo;t fear that some books are reserved for certain grades, or anything
 like that. You can come in here any time you like. If you want to borrow a book and
 take it home, you may. When you&rsquo;ve read it, be sure and bring it back! And if you&rsquo;ve
 got any books at home you think the others would like to read, I&rsquo;d be delighted if
 you&rsquo;d bring them here. At any rate, please do as much reading as you can!&rdquo;
 &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s make the first class today a library class!&rdquo; cried the children, unanimously.
 &ldquo;Is that what you&rsquo;d like to do?&rdquo; said the head-master, smiling happily to see them so
 excited. &ldquo;All right, then, why not?&rdquo;
 Whereupon, the whole student body of Tomoe--all fifty children--piled into the
 library car. With great excitement they picked our books they wanted and tried to sit
 down, but only about half of them could find seats and the rest had to stand. It looked
 exactly like a crowded train, with people reading books standing up. It was quite a
 funny sight.
 The children were overjoyed. Totto-chan couldn&rsquo;t read too well yet, so she chose a
 book with a picture in it that looked most entertaining. When everyone had a book in
 hand and started turning the pages, the car suddenly became quiet. But not for long.
 The silence was soon broken by a jumble of voices. Some were reading passages
 aloud, some were asking others the meaning of characters they didn&rsquo;t know, and
 some wanted to swap books. Laughter filled the train. One child had just started on a
 book called Singing Pictures and was drawing a face while reading out the
 accompanying jingle in a loud singsong:
 A circle and a spot; a circle and a spot;
 Criss-crosses for the nose; another round and dot.
 Three hairs, three hairs, three hairs--and wow!
 Quick as a wink, there&rsquo;s a fat hausfrau.
 The face had to be encircled on the word &ldquo;wow, and the three semicircles drawn as
 you sang &ldquo;Quick as a wink.&rdquo; If you made all the right strokes, the result was the face
 of a plump woman with an old-fashioned Japanese hairdo.
 At Tomoe, where the children were allowed to work on their subjects in any order
 they pleased, it would have been awkward if the children let themselves be disturbed
 by what others were doing. They were trained to concentrate no matter what was
 going on around them. So nobody paid any attention to the child singing aloud while
 drawing the hausfrau. One or two had joined in, but all the others were absorbed in
 their books.
 Totto-chan&rsquo;s book seemed to be a folk tale. It was about a rich man&rsquo;s daughter who
 couldn&rsquo;t get a husband because she was always breaking wind. Finally her parents
 managed to find a husband for her, but She was so excited on her wedding night that
 she let out a much bigger one than ever before, and the wind blew her bridegroom
 out of bed, spun him around the bedroom seven and a half rimes, and knocked him
 61