way the little chicks had cheeped when they saw her at the fair, and she clenched her
 teeth as she cried soundlessly.
 She had never wanted anything so much in her life and row it was gone so soon. It
 was her first experience of loss and separation.
 Their Worst Clothes
 The headmaster was always asking parents to send their children to school at Tomoe
 in their worst clothes. He wanted them to wear their worst clothes so that it wouldn&rsquo;t
 matter if they got muddy and torn. He thought it a shame for children to worry about
 being scolded if their clothes got dirty or to hesitate joining in some game because
 their clothes might get torn. There were elementary schools rear Tomoe where the
 girls were dressed in sailor-suit uniforms and the boys wore high-collared jackets
 with shorts. The Tomoe children came to school in their ordinary clothes, and they
 had their teachers&rsquo; permission to play to their hearts&rsquo; content without giving their
 clothes a thought. Trousers in those days weren&rsquo;t made of anything durable like
 today&rsquo;s jeans, so all the boys had patches on their trousers and the girls wore skirts or
 dresses made of the strongest material available.
 Totto-chan&rsquo;s favorite pastime was crawling under the fences of other people&rsquo;s
 gardens and vacant lots, so it suited her very well not to have to think about her
 clothes. There were a lot of barbed-wire fences in those days, and some of them had
 wire right down to ground level. In order to get under one like that you had to burrow
 like a dog. No matter how careful she was, Totto-chan would always manage to
 catch her dress on the barbs and tear it. Once, when she had on an old muslin dress
 that was really quite threadbare, the whole thing got shredded from top to bottom.
 Although it was old, she knew Mother was very fond of that dress, so Totto-chan
 racked her brains about what to say. She hadn&rsquo;t the heart to tell Mother she had torn it
 on barbed wire. She thought it would be better to think up a lie that would make it
 sound as if she couldn&rsquo;t help tearing it. She finally hit on the following story.
 &ldquo;As I was walking along the road,&rdquo; she lied, on arriving home, &ldquo;a lot of children I
 didn&rsquo;t know threw knives at my back. That&rsquo;s why my dress got torn like this.&rdquo; But as
 she spoke she wondered how to answer further questions her mother might ask.
 Thankfully, all her mother said was, &ldquo;It must have been awful!&rdquo;
 Totto-chan heaved a sigh of relief. Mother obviously realized that under chose
 circumstances she couldn&rsquo;t help getting Mother&rsquo;s favorite dress ton.
 Naturally, Mother didn&rsquo;t believe her story about the knives. Knives thrown at her
 back would have injured her as well as tearing her dress, and Totto-chan didn&rsquo;t seem
 at all frightened by the incident. Mother realized at once it was a fabrication.
 However, if was unusual for Totto-chan to go to such lengths to make up an excuse.
 She realized Totto-chan must have felt badly about the dress and that pleased her.
 But there was something Mother had wanted to know for some rime, and this seemed
 a good opportunity to find out.
 &lsquo;&ldquo;I can see how your dresses can pet torn by knives and things like that,&rdquo; said Mother,
 &ldquo;but how do you manage to tear your panties too, day after day!&rdquo;
 41