Totto-chan had brought a flashlight she had borrowed from Mother.
 &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t lose it,&rsquo;&rdquo; Mother had said.
 Some of the boys said they were going to catch the ghosts and brought butterfly nets,
 while others brought string saying they were going to tie them up.
 It was dark by the time the headmaster had explained what they were to do, and
 groups had been formed by playing &ldquo;stone, paper, scissors.&rdquo; Squealing with
 excitement, the first group set off out of the school gate. Finally it was time for
 Totto-chan&rsquo;s group to go.
 The headmaster said no ghosts would appear before they got to Kuhonbutsu Temple,
 but the children weren&rsquo;t too sure about that and proceeded nervously until they
 reached the entrance to the temple, from where they could see the guardian Deva
 Kings. The temple grounds seemed pitch dark in spite of the moon being out. It was
 pleasant and spacious there by day, but now, not knowing when they would
 encounter one of the ghosts, the children were so terrified they could hardly bear it.
 &ldquo;Eee!&rdquo; someone would scream as a tree rustled in the breeze, or &ldquo;Here&rsquo;s a ghost!&rdquo; as
 someone&rsquo;s leg touched something soft. In the end it seemed as if even the friend
 whose hand one was holding might be a ghost. Totto-chan made up her mind not to
 go all the way to the graveyard. That&rsquo;s where the ghosts were bound to be waiting,
 and anyway she felt she now knew all about bravery tests and could go back. The
 others in her group made the same decision at the same time--it was reassuring not to
 be the only one--and they all ran back as fast as their legs could carry them.
 When they got to the school they found the groups that had left before them already
 there. It seemed that almost everybody had been too scared to go as far as the
 graveyard.
 Just then, a boy with a white cloth over his head came through the gate crying,
 accompanied by a teacher. He was one of the ghosts and had been crouching in the
 graveyard the whole time, but nobody had come and he got more and more scared
 and finally went outside and was found crying in the road by the patrolling teacher
 who brought him back. While they were all trying to cheer the boy up, a second
 ghost came back crying with another boy who was also crying. The one who was the
 ghost had also been hiding in the graveyard and when he heard someone running
 toward it, he leaped out to try and scare him and they collided head-on. Hurt, and
 frightened to death, the two of them came running back together. It was so funny,
 and with the great relief that came after being so scared, the children laughed their
 heads off. The ghosts laughed and cried at the same time. Soon one of Totto-chan&rsquo;s
 classmates, whose surname was Migita, arrived back. He was wearing a ghost&rsquo;s hood
 made of newspaper and he was furious because nobody had come into the graveyard.
 &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been waiting there all this time,&rdquo; he complained, scratching the mosquito bites
 on his arms and less.
 &ldquo;A ghost&rsquo;s been bitten by mosquitoes,&rdquo; someone said, and everyone began laughing
 again.
 32