Totto-chan and her friends hurriedly followed them. In the warm breeze it felt
 wonderful not to have any clothes on. wVhen they got to the top of the steps outside
 the Assembly Hall they found the others already doing warm-up exercises. Totto-
 chan and
 her classmates ran down the steps in their bare feet.
 The swimming instructor was Miyo-chan&rsquo;s elder brother--the headmaster&rsquo;s son and
 an expert in gymnastics. He wasn&rsquo;t a teacher at Tomoe but he was on the swimming
 team of a university. His name was the same as the school&rsquo;s--Tomoe. Tomoe-san
 wore swimming trunks.
 After their exercises, the children let out screams as cold water was poured over
 them, and then they jumped into the pool. Totto-chan didn&rsquo;t go in until she had
 watched some of the others and satisfied herself they could stand. It wasn&rsquo;t hot, like a
 bath but it was lovely and big, and as far as you could stretch your arms there was
 nothing but water.
 Thin children, plump children, boys, girls - they were all laughing and shouting and
 splashing in their birthday suits.
 What fun, thought Totto-chan, and what a lovely feeling! She was only sorry Rocky
 couldn&rsquo;t come to school. She was sure that if he knew he could go in without a
 swimsuit he&rsquo;d be in the pool, too.
 You might wonder why the headmaster allowed the children to swim naked. There
 were no rules about it. If you brought your suit and wanted to wear it, that was
 perfectly all right. h the other hand, like today, when you suddenly decided to go in
 and hadn&rsquo;t a suit, that was perfectly all right, too. And why did he let them swim in
 the nude! Because he thought it wasn&rsquo;t right for boys and girls to be morbidly curious
 about the differences in their bodies, and he thought it was unnatural for people to
 take such pains to hide their bodies from other people.
 He wanted to teach the children that all bodies are beautiful. Among the pupils at
 Tomoe were some who had had polio, like Yasuaki-chan, or were very small, or
 otherwise handicapped, and he felt if they bared their bodies and played together it
 would rid them of feelings of shame and help to prevent them developing an
 inferiority complex. As it turned out, while the handicapped children were shy at
 first, they soon began to enjoy themselves, and finally they got over their shyness
 completely.
 Some parents were worried about the idea and provided their offspring with
 swimsuits which they insisted should always be worn. Little did they know how
 seldom the suits were used. Observing children like Totto-chan-who right from the
 start decided swimming naked was best--and those who said they had forgotten to
 bring their suits and went in anyway, most of them became convinced it was much
 more fun swimming naked like the others, so all they did was make sure they took
 wet swimsuits home! Consequently, almost all the children at Tomoe became as
 brown as berries all over, and there were hardly any with white swimsuit marks.
 26