&ldquo;Oh!&rdquo; said the children, impressed. Then someone asked if they could see Totto-
 chan&rsquo;s denbu.
 &ldquo;Certainly,&rdquo; said the headmaster, and the whole school trooped over to look at Totto-
 chan&rsquo;s denbu. There must have been children who knew what denhu was but whose
 interest had been aroused, as well as those who wanted to see if Totto-chan&rsquo;s denbu
 was any different from the kind they had at home. So many children sniffed at Totto-
 chan&rsquo;s denbu that she was afraid the bits might get blown away.
 Totto-chan was a little nervous that first day at lunch, but it was fun. It was
 fascinating wondering what was sea food and what was land food, and she learned
 that denbu was made of fish, and Mother had remembered to include something from
 the ocean and something from the hills, so all in all everything had been all right, she
 thought contentedly.
 And the next thing that made Totto-chan happy was that when she started to eat the
 lunch Mother had made, it was delicious.
"Chew It Well!&rdquo;
 Normally one starts a meal by saying, &ldquo;Iradokimasu&rdquo; (I gratefully partake), but
 another thing that was different at Tomoe Gakuen was that first of all everybody
 sang a song. The headmaster was a musician and he had made up a special &ldquo;Song to
 Sing before Lunch.&rdquo; Actually, he just made up the words and set them to the tune of
 the well-known round &ldquo;Row, Row, Row Your Boat.&rdquo; The words the headmaster
 made up went like this:
 Chew, chew, chew it well,
 Everything you eat;
 Chew it and chew it and chew it and chew it,
 Your rice and fish and meat!
 It wasn&rsquo;t until they had finished singing this song that the children all said
 &ldquo;Itadakimasu".
 The words fitted the tune of &ldquo;Row, Row, Row Your Boat&rdquo; so well that even years
 later many of the pupils firmly believed it had always been a song you sang before
 eating.
 The headmaster may have made up the song because he had lost some of his teeth,
 but he was always telling the children to ear slowly and take plenty of time over
 meals while enjoying pleasant conversation, so it is more likely he made up this song
 to remind them of that.
 After they had sung the song at the tops of their voices, the children all said
 &ldquo;Itadakimasu&rdquo; and settled down to &ldquo;something from the ocean and something from
 the hills.&rdquo;
 15