His face was more like that of a troubled father importuned by his daughter than of a
 headmaster.
 &ldquo;Totto-chan, I&rsquo;d be truly grateful if you&rsquo;d stop wearing that ribbon to school. You see,
Miyo-chan keeps pestering me about it. Would you mind very much?&rdquo;
 Totto-chan thought it over, her arms folded. Then she answered quickly, &ldquo;All right. I
 won&rsquo;t wear it here any more.&rdquo;
 &ldquo;Thank you,&rdquo; said the headmaster.
 Totto-chan was rather sorry, but the headmaster was in trouble, so she had agreed.
 Another reason was that the thought of a grown-up man--her beloved headmaster-
 searching high and low in all the ribbon shops, made her feel sorry for him. That was
 the way it was at Tomoe. Without realizing it, everyone got in the habit of
 understanding one another&rsquo;s problems and trying to help, irrespective of age. It
 became the natural thing to do.
 The following morning, when Mother went into Totto-chan&rsquo;s room to clean up after
 Totto-chan had left for school, she found the ribbon tied around the neck of Totto-
 chan&rsquo;s favorite teddy bear. She wondered why Totto-chan had suddenly given up
 wearing the ribbon she had been so thrilled about. Mother thought the gray teddy
 bear looked slightly embarrassed about being dressed so gaily all of a sudden.
Visiting the Wounded
 For the first time in her life Totto-chan visited a hospital for wounded soldiers. She
 went with about thirty elementary school children from various schools, children she
 didn&rsquo;t know. It was part of a scheme recently organized nationally for groups of
 elementary school children. Each school would normally send two or three children,
 but small schools like Tomoe only sent one, and the group would be in the charge of
 a teacher from one of the schools. Totto-chan was representing Tomoe.
 The teacher in charge was a thin woman who wore glasses. She led the children into
 a ward where there were about fifteen soldiers in white pajamas, some in bed and
 others walking about. Totto-chan had worried about what wounded soldiers would
 look like, but they all smiled and waved their hands and seemed cheerful so she was
 relieved, although some had bandages on their heads.
 The teacher assembled the children in the middle of the ward and addressed the
 soldiers.
 &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve come to visit you,&rdquo; she said, and the children all bowed. The teacher went on,
 &ldquo;Since to-day is the fifth of May-boy&rsquo;s Day-we&rsquo;re going to sing &rsquo;Carp Streamers.&rsquo;&rdquo;
 She raised her arms, like a conductor, said to the children, &ldquo;Now, ready! Three, four,&rdquo;
 and began to beat time. The children didn&rsquo;t know each other but they all began
 singing whole heartedly:
 Over the sea of rooftops,
 Over the sea of clouds...
 75