EPILOGUE
 What are they doing now, those friends of mine who &ldquo;traveled&rdquo; together with me on
 the same classroom &ldquo;train?&rdquo;
Akira Takahashi
 Takahashi, who won all the prizes on Sports Day, never grew any taller, bur entered,
 with flying colors, a high school famous in Japan for its rugby team. He went on to
 Meiji University and a degree in electronic engineering.
 He is now personnel manager of a large electronics company near Lake Hamana in
 central Japan. He is responsible for harmony in the work force and he listens to
 complaints and troubles and settles dispute. Having suffered much himself, he can
 readily understand other people&rsquo;s problems, and his sunny disposition and attractive
 personality must be a great help, too. As a technical specialist, he also trains the
 younger men in the use of the large machines with integrated circuitry.
 I went to Hamamatsu to see Takahashi and his wife--a kindly woman who
 understands him perfectly and has heard so much about Tomoe she says it is almost
 as if she had gone there herself. She assured me Takahashi has no complexes
 whatever about his dwarfism. I am quite sure she is right. Complexes would have
 made life very difficult for him at the prestigious high school and university he
 attended, and would hardly enable him to work as he does in a personnel department.
 Describing his first day at Tomoe, Takahashi said he immediately felt at ease when
 he saw there were others with physical handicaps. From that moment he suffered no
 qualms and enjoyed each day so much he never even once wanted to stay home. He
 told me he was embarrassed at first about swimming naked in the pool, but as he
 took off his clothes one by one, so he shed his shyness and sense of shame bit by bit.
 He even got so he did not mind standing up in front of the others to make his
 lunchtime speeches.
 He told me how Mr. Kobayashi had encouraged him to jump over vaulting-horses
 higher than he was, always assuring him he could do it, although he suspects now
 that Mr. Kobayashi probably helped him over them--but not until the very last
 moment, letting him think he had done it all by himself. Mr. Kobayashi gave him
 confidence and enabled him to know the indescribable joy of successful
 achievement. Whenever he tried to hide in the background, the headmaster invariably
 brought him forward so he had to develop a positive attitude to life willy-nilly. He
 still remembers the elation he felt at winning all those prizes. Bright-eyed and
 sensible as ever, he reminisced happily about Tomoe.
 A good home environment must have contributed, too, to Takahashi&rsquo;s developing
 into such a fine person. Nevertheless, there is no doubt about the fact that Mr.
 Kobayashi dealt with us all in a very far-sighted way. Like his constantly saying me,
 &ldquo;You&rsquo;re really a good girl, you know,&rdquo; the encouraging way he kept saying to
 Takahashi, &ldquo;You can do it!&rdquo; was a decisive factor in shaping his life.
 As I was leaving Hamamatsu, Takahashi told me something I had completely
 forgotten. He said he was often teased and bullied by children from other schools on
 102