The Great Adventure
 Two days after they camped in the Assembly Hall, the day of Totto-chan&rsquo;s great
 adventure finally came to pass. It was the day of her appointment with Yasuaki-chan.
 And it was a secret that neither Mother nor Daddy nor Yasuaki-chan&rsquo;s parents knew.
 She had invited Yasuaki-chan to her tree.
 The students at Tomoe each had a tree in the school grounds they considered their
 own climbing tree. Totto-chan&rsquo;s tree was at the edge of the grounds near the fence
 beside the lane leading to Kuhonbutsu. It was a large tree and slippery to climb, but
 if you climbed it skillfully you could get to a fork about six feet from the ground.
 The fork was as comfortable as a hammock. Totto-chan used to go there during
 recess and after school and sit and look off into the distance or up at the sky, or
 watch the people going by below.
 The children considered &ldquo;their&rdquo; trees their own private property, so if you wanted to
 climb someone else&rsquo;s tree you had to ask their permission very politely, saying,
 &ldquo;Excuse me, may I come in!&rdquo;
 Because Yasuaki-chan had had polio he had never climbed a tree, and couldn&rsquo;t claim
 one as his own. That&rsquo;s why Totto-chan decided to invite him to her tree. They kept it
 a secret because they thought people were sure to make a fuss if they knew.
 When she left home, Totto-chan told her mother she was going to visit Yasuaki-chan
 at his home in Denenchofu. She was telling a lie, so she tried not to look at Mother
 but kept her eyes on her shoelaces. But Rocky followed her to the station, so when
 they parted company, she told him the truth.
 &ldquo;I&rsquo;m going to let Yasuaki-chan climb my tree!&rdquo; she said.
 When Totto-chan reached the school, her train pass flapping around her neck, she
 found Yasuaki-chan waiting by the flower beds in the grounds that were deserted
 now that it was summer vacation. He was only a year older than Totto-chan, but he
 always sounded much older when he spoke.
 When Yasuaki-chan saw Totto-chan, he hurried toward her, dragging his leg and
 holding his arms out in front to steady himself. Totto-chan was thrilled to think they
 were going to do something secret, and she giggled. Yasuaki-chan giggled, too.
 Totto-chan led Yasuaki-chan to her tree, and then, just as she had thought it out the
 night before, she ran to the janitor&rsquo;s shed and got a ladder, which she dragged over to
 the tree and leaned against the trunk so that it reached the fork. She climbed up
 quickly and, holding the top of the ladder, called down, &ldquo;All right, try climbing up!&rdquo;
 Yasuaki-chan&rsquo;s arms and legs were so weak it seemed he could not even get on the
 first rung without help. So Totto-chan hurried down the ladder backward and tried
 pushing Yasuaki-chan up from behind. But Totto-chan was so small and slender that
 it was all she could do to hold onto Yasuaki-chan, let alone keep the ladder steady.
 Yasuaki-chan took his foot off the bottom rung and stood beside the ladder, his head
 bowed. Totto-chan realized for the first time that it was going to be more difficult
 than she had thought. what should she do?
 29