where Benkei has to pretend to read out the Fund-Raising Charter when ordered by
 the commander to do so. The scroll he &ldquo;reads&rdquo; from is blank, and he brilliantly
 extemporizes an appeal for funds in pompous ecclesiastical language: &ldquo;Firstly, for
 the purpose of the reiteration of the temple known as Todaiji...&rdquo;
 Aiko Saisho practiced her &ldquo;Firstly&rdquo; speech every day.
 The role of Togashi, too, had lots of dialogue, as he tries to refute Benkei&rsquo;s
 arguments, and Amadera struggled to memorize it.
 Finally rehearsal time came. Togashi and Benkei faced each other, with the monks
 lined up behind Benkei, and Totto-chan, as Yoshitsune, kneeling, huddled over, in
 front. But Totto-chan didn&rsquo;t understand what it was all about. So when Benkei had to
 knock Yoshitsune down with his staff and strike him, Totto-chan reacted violently.
 She kicked Aiko Saisho in the legs and scratched her. Aiko cried and the monks
 giggled.
 Yoshitsune was supposed to remain still, looking cowed, no matter how-much
 Benkei beat and hit him. The idea is that while Togashi suspects the truth, he is so
 impressed by Benkei&rsquo;s ruse and the pain it must cost him to ill-treat his noble master,
 that he lets them through the checkpoint. To have Yoshitsune resisting would ruin
 the whole plot. Mr. Maruyama tried to explain this to Totto-chan. But Totto-chan
 was adamant. She insisted that if Aiko Saisho hit her she would hit back. So they
 made no progress.
 No matter how many times they tried the scene, Totto-chan always put up a fight.
 &ldquo;I&rsquo;m terribly sorry,&rdquo; said Mr. Maruyama to Totto-chan finally, &ldquo;but I think we had
 better ask Tai-chan to play the part of Yoshitsune.&rdquo;
 Totto-chan was relieved. She didn&rsquo;t like being the only ore who got knocked about.
 &ldquo;Totto-chan, will you please be a monk?&rdquo; asked Mr. Maruyama. So Totto-chan stood
 with the other monks, but right at the back.
 Mr. Maruyama and the children thought everything would be fine now, but they were
 wrong. He shouldn&rsquo;t have let Totto-chan have a monk&rsquo;s long staff. Totto-chan got
 bored with standing still so she started poking the feet of the monk next to her with
 the staff, and tickling the monk in front under his armpits. She even pretended to
 conduct with it, which was not only dangerous for those nearby but also ruined the
 scene between Benkei and Togashi.
 So eventually she was deprived of her role as a monk, too.
 Tai-chan as Yoshitsune, gritted his teeth manfully as he was knocked over and
 beaten, and the audience must surely have felt sorry for him. Rehearsals progressed
 smoothly without Totto-chan.
 Left by herself, Totto-chan went out into the school grounds. She took off her shoes
 and started to improvise a Totto-chan ballet. It was lovely dancing according to her
 own fancy. Sometimes she was a swan, sometimes the wind, sometimes a grotesque
 83