The headmaster looked at her expectantly. &ldquo;What is it?&rdquo; he asked again, leaning
 forward.
 Totto-chan said sweetly and slowly, in a big-sisterly or motherly way, &ldquo;I&rsquo;d like to
 teach at this school when I grow up. I really would.&rdquo;
 Totto-chan expected the headmaster to smile, but instead, he asked in all seriousness,
 &ldquo;Promise?&rdquo;
 He really seemed to want her to do it.
 Totto-chan nodded her head vigorously and said, &ldquo;I promise,&rdquo; determining in her
 heart to become a teacher there without fail.
 At that moment she was thinking about the morning when she first came to Tomoe as
 a first grader and met the headmaster in his office. It seemed a long time ago. He had
 listened patiently to her for four hours. She thought of the warmth in his voice when
 he had said to her, after she had finished talking, &ldquo;Now you&rsquo;re a pupil of this school.&rdquo;
 She loved Mr. Kobayashi even more than she had then. And she was determined to
 work for him and do anything she could to help him.
 When she had promised, he smiled delightedly&mdash;as usual, showing no
 embarrassment about his missing teeth. Totto-chan held out her little finger. The
 headmaster did the same. His little finger looked strong--you could put your faith in
 it. Totto-chan and the headmaster then made a pledge in the time-honored Japanese
 way by linking little fingers. The headmaster was smiling. Totto-chan smiled, too,
 reassured. She was going to be a teacher at Tomoe! What a wonderful thought.
 &ldquo;When I&rsquo;m a teacher...,&rdquo; she mused. And these were the things that Totto-chan
 imagined: not too much study; lots of Sports Days, field kitchens, camping, and
 walks
 The headmaster was delighted. It was hard to imagine Totto-chan grown-up, but he
 was sure she could be a Tomoe teacher. He thought the Tomoe children would all
 make good teachers since they were likely to remember what it was like being a
 child.
 There at Tomoe, the headmaster and one of his pupils were making a solemn
 promise about something that lay ten years or more in the future, when everyone
 was saying it was only a matter of time before American airplanes loaded with
 bombs appeared in the skies over Japan.
 Rocky Disappears
 Lots of soldiers had died, food had become scarce, everyone was living in fear--but
 summer came as usual. And the sun shone on the nations that were winning as well
 as on the nations that weren&rsquo;t.
 Totto-chan had just returned to Tokyo from her uncle&rsquo;s house in Kamakura.
 There was no camping now at Tomoe and no more lovely visits to hot spring resorts.
 It seemed as if the children would never be able to enjoy a summer vacation as happy
 90