Totto-chan&rsquo;s Name
 Totto-chan&rsquo;s real name was Tetsuko. Before she was born all Mother&rsquo;s and Daddy&rsquo;s
 friends and relatives said they were sure the baby would be a boy. It was their first
 child, and they believed it. So they decided to name the baby Toru. When the baby
 turned out to be a girl, they were a bit disappointed, but they both liked the Chinese
 character for toru (which means to penetrate, to carry far, to be clear and resonant, as
 a voice) so they made it into a girl&rsquo;s name by using its Chinese-derived pronunciation
 tetsu and adding the suffix ko often used for girls&rsquo; names.
 So everybody called her Tetsuko-chan (chan is the familiar form of the san used after
 a person&rsquo;s name). But it didn&rsquo;t sound quite like Tetsuko-chan to her. Whenever
 anyone asked her what her name was, she would answer, &ldquo;Totto-chan.&rdquo; She even
 thought that chan was part of her name, too.
 Daddy sometimes called her Totsky, as if she were a boy. He&rsquo;d say, &ldquo;Totsky! Come
 and help me take these bugs off the roses!&rdquo; But except for Daddy and Rocky
 everybody else called her Totto-chan, and although she wrote her name as Tetsuko in
 her notebooks at school, she still went on thinking of herself as Totto-chan.
 Radio Comedians
 Yesterday Totto-chan was very upset. Mother had said, &ldquo;You mustn&rsquo;t listen to any
 more comedians on the radio.&rdquo;
 When Totto-chan was a little girl, radios were large and made of wood. They were
 very elegant. Theirs was rectangular with a rounded top, and a big speaker in front
 covered with pink silk and carved arabesques. It had two control knobs.
 Even before she started school, Totto-chan liked to listen to rakugo comedians,
 pressing her ear against the pink silk. She thought their jokes were terribly funny.
 Mother had never objected to her listening to them until yesterday.
 Last night some of Daddy&rsquo;s friends from the orchestra came to their house to practice
 string quartets in the living room.
 &ldquo;Mr. Tsunesada Tachibana, who plays the cello, has brought you some bananas,&rdquo;
 said Mother.
 Totto-chan was thrilled. She bowed politely to Mr. Tachibana, and by way of thanks
 exclaimed to her mother, &ldquo;Hey, Ma, this is pretty goddam good!&rdquo;
 After that Totto-chan had to listen in secret when Mother and Daddy were out. When
 the comedians were good, she would laugh uproariously. If any grown-ups had been
 watching, they might well have wondered how such a small girl could understand
 such difficult jokes. But there&rsquo;s no doubt that children have an innate sense of humor.
 No matter how young they are, they always know when something&rsquo;s really funny.
 Railroad Car Arrives
 &ldquo;There&rsquo;s a new railroad car coming tonight,&rdquo; said Miyo-chan during the lunchtime
 break. Miyo-chan was the headmaster&rsquo;s third daughter and was in Totto-chan&rsquo;s class.
 22