She wanted so badly to have Yasuaki-chan climb her tree, and he had been looking
 forward to it so much. She went around and faced him. He looked so disconsolate
 that she puffed out her cheeks and made a funny face to cheer him up.
 &ldquo;Wait! I&rsquo;ve got an idea!&rdquo;
 She ran back to the janitor&rsquo;s shed and pulled out one thing after another to see if she
 could find something that would help. She finally discovered a stepladder. It would
 remain steady so she wouldn&rsquo;t have to hold it.
 She dragged the stepladder over, amazed at her own strength, and was delighted to
 find that it almost reached the fork.
 &ldquo;Now, don&rsquo;t be afraid,&rdquo; she said in a big-sisterly voice. &ldquo;This isn&rsquo;t going to wobble.&rdquo;
 Yasuaki-chan looked nervously at the stepladder. Then he looked at Totto-chan,
 drenched in perspiration. Yasuaki-chan was sweating profusely, too. He looked up at
 the tree. Then, with determination, he placed a foot on the first rung.
 Neither of them was conscious of the time it took Yasuaki-chan to reach the top of
 the stepladder. The hot summer sun beat down, but they had no thoughts for anything
 except getting Yasuaki-chan to the top of the stepladder. Totto-chan got underneath
 him and lifted his feet up while steadying his bottom with her head. Yasuaki-chan
 struggled with all his might, and finally reached the top.
 &lsquo;&ldquo;Hooray!&rsquo;&rsquo;
 But from there it was hopeless. Totto-chan jumped onto the fork, but no matter how
 she tried, she couldn&rsquo;t get Yasuaki-chan onto the tree from the stepladder. Clutching
 the stepladder Yasuaki-chan looked at Totto-chan. She suddenly felt like crying. She
 had wanted so badly to invite Yasuaki-chan on to her tree and show him all sorts of
 things.
 But she didn&rsquo;t cry. She was afraid that if she did, Yasuaki-chan might start crying,
 too.
 Instead she took hold of his hand, with its fingers all stuck together because of the
 polio. It was bigger than hers and his fingers were longer. She held his hand for a
 long time. Then she said, &ldquo;Lie down and I&rsquo;ll try and pull you over.&rsquo;&rdquo;
 If any grown-ups had seen her standing on the fork of the tree starting to pull
 Yasuaki-chan--who was lying on his stomach on the stepladder-&mdash;onto the tree, they
 would have let out a scream. It must have looked terribly precarious.
 But Yasuaki-chan trusted Totto-chan completely. And Totto-chan was risking her
 life for him. wWith her tiny hands clutching his, she pulled with all her might. From
 time to rime a large cloud would mercifully protect them from the blistering sun.
 At long last, the two stood face to face on the tree. Brushing her damp hair back,
 Totto-chan bowed politely and said, &ldquo;Welcome to my tree.&rdquo;
 30