It was almost spring, Totto-chan&rsquo;s second spring at Tomoe, and the beginning of a
 new school year.
Her Second Year at Tomoe
 Tender green leaves were sprouting on all the trees in the school grounds, and the
 flowers in the flower beds were busy blossoming. Crocuses, daffodils, and pansies
 popped out their heads in Nm to say, &ldquo;How do you do?&rdquo; to the pupils of Tomoe, and
 the tulips lengthened their stalks as if stretching themselves. Cherry buds trembled in
 the soft breeze, all set and ready, waiting for the signal to burst into bloom.
 The black popeyes, followed by the rest of the goldfish that lived in the small square
 concrete foot-rinsing basin by the swimming pool, shook themselves and started to
 swim about happily.
 There was no reed to say, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s spring,&rdquo; for the season when everything looks shining
 and fresh and lively needed no announcement. Everyone knew it was spring!
 If was exactly a year since the morning Totto-chan first arrived at Tomoe Gakuen
 with Mother. She was so surprised to find a Bate growing out of the ground, and so
 excited to see classrooms in a train, that she jumped up and down, and so certain that
 Sosaku Kobayashi, the headmaster, was her friend. Now Totto-chan and her
 classmates rejoiced in their new status as second graders while in came the new first
 grade children looking all around curiously just as Totto-chan and her classmates had
 done.
 It had been an eventful year for Totto-chan, and she had eagerly looked forward to
 every single morning of it. She still liked street musicians, but she had learned to like
 many, many more things around her. The little girl who had been expelled for being
 a nuisance had grown into a child worthy of Tomoe.
 Some parents had misgivings about Tomoe&rsquo;s education. There were times when even
 Totto-chan&rsquo;s Mother and Daddy wondered if they had done the right thing. Among
 parents who regarded Mr. Kobayashi&rsquo;s educational system dubiously and judged it
 superficially, just by what they saw, were some who became so alarmed about
 leaving their children at his school that they arranged to transfer them elsewhere. But
 the children themselves did not want to leave Tomoe, and cried. Fortunately, no one
 was leaving in Totto-chan&rsquo;s class, but a boy one grade above had rears streaming
 down his cheeks as he vented his despair by pounding on the head-master&rsquo;s back with
 clenched fists, the scab from a grazed knee flapping all the while. The headmaster&rsquo;s
 eyes were red from crying, too. The lad was finally led away from the school by his
 mother and father. As he went, he kept on turning around and waving, time after
 time.
 But there were not many sad occasions like that, and Totto-chan was now a second
 grader, with the expectation of more daily surprises and delight.
 By this time Totto-chan&rsquo;s schoolbag was well acquainted with her back.
Swan Lake
 64