hands and slid the door to the right. Totto-chan&rsquo;s heart was beating fast with
 excitement as she peeped inside.
 &ldquo;Ooh!&rsquo;&rdquo;
 Studying here would be like going on a perpetual journey. The windows still had
 baggage racks above them. The only difference was that there was a blackboard at
 the front of the car, and the lengthwise seats had been replaced by school desks and
 chairs all facing forward. The hand straps had gone, too, but everything else had been
 left just as it was. Totto-chan went in and sat down at someone&rsquo;s desk. The wooden
 chairs resembled those at the other school, but they were so much more comfortable
 she could sit on them all day. Totto-chan was so happy and liked the school so much,
 she made a firm decision to come to school every day and never take any holidays.
 Totto-chan looked out of the window. She knew the train was stationary, but&mdash;was it
 because the flowers and trees in the school grounds were swaying slightly in the
 breeze!--it seemed to be moving.
 &ldquo;I&rsquo;m so happy!&rdquo; she finally said out loud. Then she pressed her face against the
 window and made up a song just as she always did whenever she was happy.
 I&rsquo;m so happy,
 So happy am I!
 Why am I happy!
 Because...
 Just at that moment someone got on. It was a girl. She took her notebook and pencil
 box out of her schoolbag and put them on her desk. Then she stood on tiptoe and put
 the bag on the rack. She put her shoe bag up there, too. Totto-chan stopped singing
 and quickly did the same. After that a boy got on. He stood at the door and threw his
 bag on the baggage rack as if he were playing basketball. It bounced off and fell on
 the floor. &ldquo;Bad shot!&rdquo; said the boy, taking aim again from the same place. This time
 it stayed on. &ldquo;Nice shot!&rdquo; he shouted followed by &ldquo;No, bad shot,&rdquo; as he scrambled
 onto the desk and opened his bag to get out his notebook and pencil box. His failure
 to do this first evidently made it count as a miss.
 Eventually there were nine pupils in the car. They comprised the first grade at Tomoe
Gakuen.
 They would all be traveling together on the same train.
 Lessons at Tomoe
 Going to school in a railroad car seemed unusual enough, but the seating
 arrangements turned our to be unusual, too. At the other school each pupil was
 assigned a specific desk. But here they were allowed to sit anywhere they liked at
 any time.
 11