barbed wire around vacant lots. So this morning, she said, when she was getting
 dressed to come here, all the nice dresses Mother had made were torn so she had to
 wear one Mother had bought. It had small dark red and gray checks and was made of
 jersey, and it wasn&rsquo;t bad, but Mother thought the red flowers embroidered on the
 collar were in bad taste. &ldquo;Mother doesn&rsquo;t like the collar,&rdquo; said Totto-chan, holding it
 up for the headmaster to see.
 After that, she could think of nothing more to say no matter how hard she tried. It
 made her rather sad. But just then the headmaster got up, placed his large, warm
 hand on her head, and said, &ldquo;Well, now you&rsquo;re a pupil of this school.&rdquo;
 Those were his very words. And at that moment Totto-chan felt she had met
 someone she really liked for the very first time in her life. You see, up till then, no
 one had ever listened to her for so long. And all that time the headmaster hadn&rsquo;t
 yawned once or looked bored, but seemed just as interested in what she had to say as
 she was.
 Totto-chan hadn&rsquo;t learned how to tell time yet, but it did seem like a rather long time.
 If she had been able to, she would have been astonished, and even more grateful to
 the headmaster. For, you see, Mother and Totto-chan arrived at the school at eight,
 and when she had finished talking and the headmaster had told her she was a pupil of
 the school, he looked at his pocket watch and said, &ldquo;Ah, it&rsquo;s time for lunch.&rdquo; So the
 headmaster must have listened to Totto-chan for four solid hours!
 Neither before nor since did any grown-up listen to Totto-chan for as long as that.
 And, besides, it would have amazed Mother and her homeroom teacher to think that
 a seven-year-old child could find enough to talk about for four hours nonstop.
 Totto-chan had no idea then, of course, that she had been expelled and that people
 were at their wit&rsquo;s end to know what to do. Having a naturally sunny disposition and
 being a bit absent-minded gave her an air of innocence. But deep down she felt she
 was considered different from other children and slightly strange. The headmaster,
 however, made her feel safe and warm and happy. She wanted to stay with him
 forever.
 That&rsquo;s how Totto-chan felt about Headmaster Sosaku Kobayashi that first day. And,
 luckily, the head-master felt the same about her.
 Lunehtime
 The headmaster took Totto-chan to see where the children had lunch. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t have
 lunch in the train,&rdquo; he explained, &ldquo;but in the Assembly Hall.&rdquo; The Assembly Hall was
 at the top of the stone steps Totto-chan had come up earlier. When they got there,
 they found the children noisily moving desks and chairs about, arranging them in a
 circle. As they stood in one corner and watched, Totto-chan tugged at the
 headmaster&rsquo;s jacket and asked, &ldquo;Where are the rest of the children?&rdquo;
 &ldquo;This is all there are,&rdquo; he replied.
 &ldquo;All there are?&rdquo; Totto-chan couldn&rsquo;t believe it.
 There were as many children as this in just one grade at the other school.