After turning over lots of ideas in her mind, she decided the best thing to do would
 be to crouch down as the train neared her station, pretending to tie her shoelace, and
 pick up the money secretly. It worked. When she stepped onto the platform, damp
 with perspiration and clutching the five-sen piece, she felt exhausted. The police
 station was a long way off and if she went and handed in the money she would get
 home late and Mother would be worried. She thought hard as she clumped down the
 stairs, and this is what she decided to do.
 &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll put it in a secret place, and then tomorrow I&rsquo;ll take it to school and ask
 everyone&rsquo;s advice. I ought to show it to them anyway, because nobody else has ever
 found any money.
 She wondered where to hide the money. If she took it home, Mother might ask about
 it, so it would have to be hidden somewhere else.
 She climbed into a thicket near the station. Nobody could see her there, and no one
 was likely to climb in, so it seemed pretty safe. She dug a tiny hole with a stick,
 dropped the precious five-sen coin into it, and covered it with earth. She found an
 oddly shaped stone and put it on top as a marker. Then she ran home at tremendous
 speed.
 Most nights Totto-chan would stay up talking about school until Mother announced,
 &ldquo;Time to go to bed.&rdquo; But that night, she didn&rsquo;t talk much and went to bed early.
 The following morning she awoke with the feeling there was something terribly
 important she had to do. Suddenly remembering her secret treasure, she
 was very happy.
 Leaving home earlier than usual, she raced Rocky to the thicket and scrambled in.
 &lsquo;&ldquo;It&rsquo;s here! It&rsquo;s here!&rdquo;
 The stone marker was just as she had left it.
 &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll show you something lovely,&rdquo; she said to Rocky, removing the stone and digging
 carefully. But strangely enough, the five-sen coin had disappeared! She had never
 been so surprised. Did someone see her hide it, she wondered, or had the stone
 moved! She dug all around, but the five-sen piece Was nowhere to be found. She was
 very disappointed not to be able to show it to her friends at Tomoe, but more than
 that she couldn&rsquo;t get over the mysteriousness of it.
 Thereafter, every time she passed by she would climb into the thicket and dig, but
 never again did she see that five-sen piece.
 &ldquo;Perhaps a mole took it?&rdquo; she would think. Or, &ldquo;Did I dream it?&rdquo; Or, &ldquo;Maybe God
 saw me hide it.&rdquo; But no matter how much she thought about it, it was very strange,
 indeed. A very mysterious happening that she would never forget.
 54