approved of it, and the prospect of Tomoe children visiting the tombs of the Forty-
 seven Ronin was indeed an intriguing one.
 Before they left, Mr. Maruyama told the children the story of the famous Forty-
 seven-how Lord Asano&rsquo;s brave and loyal men had plotted for almost two years to
 avenge the honor of their dead master, who had been so grievously wronged. Besides
 the Forty-seven there was a courageous merchant called Rihei Amanoya. It was he
 who supplied the weapons, and when he was arrested by the officials of the shogun
 he declared, &ldquo;I, Rihei Amanoya, am a man&rdquo; and refused to confess or give away a
 single secret. The children didn&rsquo;t understand much of the story, but they were excited
 about missing classes and going for a walk to a place much further away than
 Kuhonbutsu Temple--and a picnic lunch.
 Taking their leave of the headmaster and the other teachers all fifty, students started
 off, led by Mr. Maruyama. Here and there in the line children&rsquo;s voices could be heard
 declaiming, &ldquo;I, Rihei Amanoya, am a man.&rdquo; Girls declaimed it, too, causing
 passersby to rod their heads and laugh. It was about seven miles to Sengakuji, but
 motor vehicles were scarce, the December sky was blue, and, to the children strolling
 along firing a constant barrage of, &ldquo;I, Rihei Amanoya, am a man,&rdquo; the way did not
 seem long at all.
 When they got to Sengakuji, Mr. Maruyama gave each child a stick of incense and a
 few flowers. The temple was smaller than Kuhonbutsu, but there were lots of graves
 all in a row. The thought that this place was sacred to the memory of the Forty-seven
 Ronin made Totto-chan feel very solemn as she offered the incense and the flowers,
 and she bowed silently, imitating- Mr. Maruyama. A hush fell upon the children. It
 was unusual for Tomoe pupils to be so quiet. The smoke from the incense sticks
 placed before each tomb drifted up, drawing pictures in the sky for a long, long time.
 After that, the smell of incense always made the children think of Mr. Maruyama and
 of Rihei Amanoya. It also became for them the aroma of silence.
 The children may not have understood all about the Forty-seven Ronin, but for Mr.
 Maruyama, who spoke of these men with such fervor, the children felt almost as
 much respect and affection as for Mr. Kobayashi, although in a different way. Totto-
 chan loved his little eyes that peered from behind the thick lenses of his glasses, and
 his gentle voice that didn&rsquo;t seem to go with such a large body.
"MaSOW-chaan!"
 On her way to and from the station, Totto-chan used to pass a tenement where some
 Koreans lived. Totto-chan, of course, didn&rsquo;t know they were Koreans. The only thing
 she knew about them was that there was a woman there who wore her hair parted
 down the middle and drawn back into a bun, and who was rather plump and wore
 white rubber shoes that were pointed in front like little boats. She wore a dress with a
 long skirt and a ribbon tied in a big bow on the front of her short blouse, and always
 seemed to be looking for her son, calling out. &ldquo;MaSOW&rsquo;-chaan!&rdquo; She was always
 calling his name. And instead of pronouncing it &ldquo;Ma-sa-o-chan,&rdquo; as people normally
 would, she stressed the second syllable and drew out the &ldquo;chan&rdquo; in a high-pitched
 voice that sounded sad to Totto-chan.
 56