the headmaster had been giving a class in eurythmics to some kindergarten teachers,
 and Totto-chan was very taken with the bloomers some of the women were wearing.
 What she liked about them was that when the women stamped their feet on the
 ground, their lower thighs showing beneath the bloomers rippled in such a lovely
 grown-up way. She ran home and got out her shorts and put them on and stamped on
 the floor. But her thin, childish thighs didn&rsquo;t ripple at all. After trying several times,
 she came to the conclusion it was because of what those ladies had been wearing.
 She asked what they were and Mother explained they were athletic bloomers. She
 told Mother she definitely wanted to wear bloomers on Sports Day, but they couldn&rsquo;t
 find any in a small size. That was why Totto-chan had to make do with shorts, which
 didn&rsquo;t produce any ripples, alas.
 Something amazing happened on Sports Day. Takahashi, who had the shortest arms
 and legs and was the smallest in the school, came first in everything. It was
 unbelievable. While the others were still creeping about inside the carp, Takahashi
 was through it in a flash, and while the others only had their heads through the
 ladder, he was already out of it and running several yards ahead. As for the Relay
 Race up the Assembly Hall steps, while the others were clumsily negotiating them a
 step at a time, Takahashi--his short legs moving like pistons --was up them in one
 spurt and down again like a speeded-up movie.
 &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve got to try and beat Takahashi,&rdquo; they all said.
 Determined to beat him, the children did their utmost, but try as they might,
 Takahashi won every time. Totto-chan tried hard, too, but she never managed to beat
 Takahashi. They could outrun him in the straight stretches, but lost to him over the
 difficult bits.
 Takahashi went up to collect his prizes, looking happy and as proud as Punch. He
 was first in everything so he collected prize after prize. Everyone watched enviously.
 &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll beat Takahashi next year!&rdquo; said each child to himself. But every year it was
 Takahashi who turned out to be the star athlete.
 Now the prizes, too, were typical of the head-master. First Prize might be a giant
 radish; Second Prize, two burdock roots; Third Prize, a bundle of spinach. Things
 like that. Until she was much older Totto-chan thought all schools gave vegetables
 for Sports Day prizes.
 In those days, most schools gave notebooks, pencils, and erasers for prizes. The
 Tomoe children didn&rsquo;t know that, but they weren&rsquo;t happy about the vegetables. Totto-
 chan, for instance, who got some burdock roots and some onions, was embarrassed
 about having to carry them on the train. Additional prizes were given for various
 things, so at the end of Sports Day all the children at Tomoe had some sort of
 vegetable. Now, why should children be embarrassed about going home from school
 with vegetables! No one minded being sent to buy vegetables by his mother, but they
 apparently felt it would look odd carrying vegetables home from school.
 A fat boy who won a cabbage didn&rsquo;t know what to do with it.
 &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to be seen carrying this,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;I think I&rsquo;ll throw it away.&rdquo;
 50