party&rdquo; would be something new at Tomoe. But the children liked the idea. They
 loved doing things they&rsquo;d never done before. The children didn&rsquo;t know it, but the
 headmaster had invented a new weld, sawakai (tea party), instead of the usual
 sobetsukui (farewell party), on purpose. A farewell party sounded too sad, and the
 older children would understand that it might really be farewell if Ryo-chan got
 killed and didn&rsquo;t come back. But nobody had ever been to a tea parry before, so they
 were all excited.
 After school, Mr. Kobayashi had the children arrange the desks in a circle in the
 Assembly Hall just as at lunchtime. When they were all sitting in a circle, he gave
 each one a single thin strip of roasted dried squid to have with their green tea. Even
 that was a great luxury in those wartime days. Then he sat down next to Ryo-chan
 and placed a glass before him with a little sake in it. It was a ration obtainable only
 for those leaving for the front.
 &ldquo;This is the first tea party at Tomoe,&rdquo; said the headmaster. &ldquo;Let&rsquo;s all have a good
 time. If there&rsquo;s anything you&rsquo;d like to say to Ryo-chan, do so. You can say things to
 each other, too, not just to Ryo-chan. One by one, standing in the middle.&rdquo;
 It was not only the first time they had ever eaten dried squid at Tomoe, but the first
 time Ryo-chan had sat down with them, and the first time they had seen Ryo-chan
 sipping sake.
 One after the other the children stood up, facing Ryo-chan, and spoke to him. The
 first children just told him to take care of himself and not get sick. Then Migita, who
 was in Totto-chan&rsquo;s class, said, &ldquo;Next time I go home to the country I&rsquo;ll bring you all
 back some funeral dumplings.&rdquo;
 Everyone laughed. It was well over a year since Migita first told them about the
 dumplings he had once had at a funeral and how good they were. Whenever the
 opportunity arose, he promised to bring them some, but he never did it.
 When the headmaster heard Migita mention funeral dumplings, it gave him quite a
 start. Normally it would have been considered bad luck to mention funeral dumplings
 at such a time. But Migita said it so innocently, just wanting to share with his friends
 something that tasted so good, that the head-master laughed with the others. Ryo-
 chan laughed heartily, too. After all, Migita had been telling him for ages that he
 would bring him some.
 Then Oe got up and promised Ryo-chan that he was going to become the best
 horticulturist in Japan.
 Oe was the son of the proprietor of an enormous nursery garden in Todoroki. Keiko
 Aoki got up next and said nothing. She just giggled shyly, as usual, and bowed, and
 went back to her seat. Whereupon Totto-chan rushed forward and said for her, &ldquo;The
 chickens at Keiko-chan&rsquo;s can fly! I saw them the other day!&rdquo;
 Then Amadera spoke.&ldquo;If you find any injured cats or dogs,&rdquo; he said, &ldquo;bring them to
 me and I&rsquo;ll fix them up.
 93