together after school. She would miss him so much. Totto-chan realized that death
 meant Yasuaki-chan would never come to school any more. It was like those baby
 chicks. When they died, no matter how she called to them they never moved again.
 Yasuaki-chan&rsquo;s funeral took place at a church on the opposite side of Denenchofu
 from where he lived.
 The children walked there in silence from Jiyugaoka, in single file. Totto-chan didn&rsquo;t
 look around her as she usually did but kept her eyes on the ground the whole time.
 She realized she now felt differently from when the headmaster had told them the sad
 news. Her first reaction was disbelief, and then came sadness. But now all she
 wanted was to see Yasuaki-chan alive just once more. She wanted to talk to him so
 much she could hardly bear it.
 The church was filled with white lilies. Yasuaki-chan&rsquo;s pretty mother and sister and
 relatives, all dressed in black, were standing outside the church. When they saw
 Totto-chan they cried even more, their white handkerchiefs in their hands. It was the
 first time Totto-chan had been to a funeral, and she realized how sad it was. Nobody
 talked, and the organ played soft hymn music. The sun was shining and the church
 was full of light, but there was no happiness in it anywhere. A man with a black arm-
 band handed a single white flower to each of the Tomoe children and explained that
 they were to walk one after the other and place their flower in Yasuaki-chan&rsquo;s coffin.
 Yasuaki-chan lay in the coffin with his eyes closed, surrounded by flowers. Although
 he was dead, he looked as kind and clever as ever. Totto-chan knelt and placed her
 flower by his hand and gently touched it&mdash;the beloved hand she had held so often. His
 hand was so much whiter than her grubby little hand and his fingers so much longer,
 like a grown-ups.
 &ldquo;Bye now,&rdquo; she whispered to Yasuaki-chan. &ldquo;Maybe we&rsquo;ll meet again somewhere
 when we&rsquo;re much older. And maybe your polio will be cured by then.&rdquo;
 Then Totto-chan got up and looked at Yasuaki-chan once more.&ldquo;Oh yes, I forgot,&rdquo;
 she said, &ldquo;Uncle Tom&rsquo;s Cabin. I shan&rsquo;t be able to return it to you now, shall I? I&rsquo;ll
 keep it for you, until we meet next time.&rdquo;
 As she started walking away, she was sure she heard his voice behind her, &ldquo;Totto-
 chan, we had a lot of fun together, didn&rsquo;t we? I&rsquo;II never forget you. Never.&rsquo;&rdquo;
 When Totto-chan reached the entrance, she turned around. I&rsquo;ll never forget you
 either,&rdquo; she said.
 The spring sunshine shone softly just as it had on the day she first met Yasuaki-chan
 in the classroom-in-the-train. But unlike that day, her cheeks were wet with tears.
 A Say
 The children at Tomoe were sad for a long time, thinking about Yasuaki-chan,
 particularly so in the morning, when it was time to start class. It took a while for the
 children to get used to the fact that Yasuaki was not just late, but wasn&rsquo;t ever coming
 again. Small classes might be nice, but at times like this it made things much harder.
 Yasuaki-chan&rsquo;s absence was so conspicuous. The only saving grace was the fact that
 86