For a while the Assembly Hall was quiet.
 School Walks
 After lunch Totto-chan played in the school grounds with the others before returning
 to the classroom, where the teacher was waiting for them.
 &ldquo;You all worked hard this morning,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;so what would you like to do this
 afternoon?&rdquo;
 Before Totto-chan could even begin to think about what she wanted to do, there was
 a unanimous shout.
 &ldquo;A walk!&rsquo;&rdquo;
 &ldquo;All right,&rdquo; said the teacher, and the children all began rushing to the doors and
 dashing out. Totto-chan used to go for walks with Daddy and Rocky, but she had
 never heard of a school walk and was astounded. She loved walks, however, so she
 could hardly wait.
 As she was to find out later, if they worked hard in the morning and completed all
 the tasks the teacher had listed on the blackboard, they were generally allowed to go
 for a walk in the afternoon. It was the same whether you were in the first grade or the
 sixth grade.
 Out of the gate they went--all nine first grade pupils with their teacher in their midst-
 -and began walking along the edge of a stream. Both banks of the stream were lined
 with large cherry trees that had only recently been in full bloom. Fields of yellow
 mustard flowers stretched as far as the eve could see. The stream has long since
 disappeared, and apartment buildings and stores now crowd the area. But in those
 days Jiyugaoka was mostly fields.
 &ldquo;We go as far as Kuhonbutsu Temple,&rdquo; said the girl with the rabbit on her pinafore
 dress. Her name was Sakko-chan.
 &ldquo;We saw a snake by the pond there last time,&rdquo; said Sakko-chan. &ldquo;There&rsquo;s an old well
 in the temple grounds which they say a shooting star fell into once.
 The children chatted away about anything they liked as they walked along. The sky
 was blue and the air was filled with the fluttering of butterflies.
 After they had walked for about ten minutes, the teacher stopped. She pointed to
 some yellow flowers, and said, &ldquo;Look at these mustard flowers. Do you know why
 flowers bloom?&rdquo;
 She explained about pistils and stamens while the children crouched by the road and
 examined the flowers. The teacher told them how butterflies helped flowers bloom.
 And, indeed, the butterflies seemed very busy helping.
 Then the teacher set off again, so the children stopped inspecting the flowers and
 stood up. Someone said, &ldquo;They don&rsquo;t look like pistols, do they?&rdquo;
 16