&lsquo;&ldquo;Thank you. I shan&rsquo;t be a spy, then. But I&rsquo;m sure you will become somebody
 important.&rdquo;
 Tai-chan mumbled something, scratched his head, and buried himself in the book
 that lay open before him.
 If she couldn&rsquo;t be a spy, then what could she be, wondered Totto-chan, as she stood
 beside Tai-chan and stared at the flame on his burner.
 Daddy&rsquo;s Violin
 Before they knew it, the war with all its horrors was beginning to make itself felt in
 the life of Totto-chan and her family. Every day men and boys from the
 neighborhood were sent off with waving flags and shouts of &ldquo;Banzai!&rdquo; Foodstuffs
 rapidly disappeared one after the other from the shops. It became harder to comply
 with the Tomoe lunchtime rule of &ldquo;something from the ocean and something from
 the hills.&rdquo; Mother was making do with seaweed and pickled plums, but soon even
 that became difficult to get. Just about everything was rationed. There were no
 sweets to be found, no matter how hard you searched.
 Totto-chan knew about a vending machine under the stairs at Ookayama, the station
 before hers, where you could get a packer of caramels if you put money in the slot.
 There was a very appetizing picture on top of the machine. You could get a small
 packet for five sen and a big one for ten. But the machine had been empty for a long
 time now. Nothing would come out no matter how much money you put in or how
 hard you banged. Totto-chan was more persistent than most.
 &ldquo;Maybe there&rsquo;s still one packet in there some where,&rdquo; she thought. &ldquo;Maybe it&rsquo;s caught
 inside.&rdquo;
 So every day she got off the train at the stop before hers and tried putting five- and
 ten-sen coins into the machine. But all she got back was her money. It fell out with a
 clatter.
 About that time, someone told Daddy what most people would have thought
 welcome news. If he went and played popular wartime music on his violin at
 something called a munitions factory&mdash;where they made weapons and other things
 used in war&mdash;he would be given sugar and rice and other treats. Since Daddy, who
 had recently been awarded a prestigious musical decoration, was well known as a
 violinist, the friend told him he would certainly be given a lot of extra presents.
 &ldquo;What do you think?&rdquo; Mother asked Daddy. &ldquo;Are you going to do it?&rdquo;
 Concerts were certainly becoming scarce. In the first place, more and more
 musicians were being called up and the orchestra was short of players. Radio
 broadcasts were almost entirely given over to programs connected with the war, so
 there was not much work for Daddy and his colleagues. He ought to have welcomed
 the opportunity to play anything.
 Daddy thought for some time before replying.&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to play that sort of thing
 on my violin.&rdquo;
 88