&ldquo;But can&rsquo;t you see the seriousness of what you said? What can I do to make you
 understand the care I take with regard to Takahashi?&rdquo;
 Totto-chan remembered what happened in class that morning. The homeroom
 teacher had been telling them about human beings originally having tails. The
 children had thought it great fun. Grown-ups would have probably called her talk an
 introduction to the theory of evolution, it appealed to the children greatly. And when
 the teacher told them everybody had the vestige of a tail called the coccyx, each child
 started wondering where his was, and soon the classroom was in an uproar. Finally
 the teacher had said jokingly, &ldquo;Maybe somebody here still has a tail! What about
 you, Takahashi!&rdquo;
 Takahashi had quickly stood up, shaking his head emphatically, and said in deadly
 earnest, &ldquo;I haven&rsquo;t got one.&rdquo;
 Totto-chan realized that was what the headmaster was talking about. His voice had
 now become more sad than angry.
 &ldquo;Did it occur to you to think how Takahashi might feel if he was asked if he had a
 tail?&rdquo;
 The children couldn&rsquo;t hear the teacher&rsquo;s reply. Totto-chan didn&rsquo;t understand why the
 headmaster was so angry about the tail. She would have loved being asked by the
 headmaster if she had a tail.
 Of course, she had nothing wrong with her, so she wouldn&rsquo;t have minded such a
 question. But Takahashi had stopped growing, and he knew it. That was why the
 headmaster had thought up events for Sports Day in which Takahashi would do well.
 He had them swim in the pool without swimsuits so children like Takahashi would
 lose their self consciousness. He did all he could to help children with physical
 handicaps, like Takahashi and Yasuaki-chan, lose any complexes they might have
 and the feeling they were inferior to other children. It was beyond the headmaster&rsquo;s
 comprehension how anyone could be so thoughtless as to ask Takahashi, just because
 he looked cute, whether he had a tail.
 The headmaster happened to be visiting that class, standing in the back of
 the classroom, when she said it. Totto-chan could hear the homeroom teacher crying.
 &ldquo;It was terribly wrong of me,&rdquo; she sobbed. &ldquo;What can I do to apologize to
 Takahashi?&rdquo;
 The headmaster said nothing. Totto-chan couldn&rsquo;t see him through the glass door, but
 she wanted so much to be with him. She didn&rsquo;t know what it was all about, but
 somehow she felt more than ever that he was their friend. One must have felt that
 Way, too.
 Totto-chan never forgot how the headmaster had reprimanded their homeroom
 teacher in his kitchen and not in the faculty room, where the other teachers were. It
 showed he was an educator in the very best sense of the word, although Totto-chan
 did not realize that at the time. The sound of his voice and his words remained in her
 heart forever.
 63