He was the youngest son of six children in a rather poor farming family and had to
 work as an assistant school teacher after an elementary education. To obtain the
 necessary certificate to do it, however, was quite a feat for a boy that age, and it
 showed exceptional talent. Soon he got a position at an elementary school in Tokyo,
 and he combined teaching with music studies, which finally enabled him to carry out
 his cherished ambition and enter the Music Education Department of Japan&rsquo;s
 foremost
 conservatory of music&mdash;now the Tokyo University of Fine Arts and Music. On
 graduation, he became music instructor at Seikei Elementary School, founded by
 Haruji Nakamura, a wonderful man who believed a child&rsquo;s elementary education was
 of the utmost importance. He kept classes small and advocated a sufficiently free
 curriculum to bring out the child&rsquo;s individuality and promote self-respect. Study was
 done in the mornings. Afternoons were devoted to walks, plant collecting, sketching,
 singing, and listening to discourses by the headmaster. Mr. Kobayashi was greatly
 influenced by his methods and later instituted a similar kind of curriculum at Tomoe.
 While teaching music there, Mr. Kobayashi wrote a children&rsquo;s operetta for the
 students to perform. The operetta impressed the industrialist Baron Iwasaki, whose
 family founded the giant business enterprise Mitsubishi. Baron Iwasaki was a patron
 of the arts--helping Koscak Yamada, doyen of Japanese composers, as well as giving
 financial support to the school. The baron offered to send Mr. Kobayashi to Europe to
 study educational methods.
 Mr. Kobayashi spent two years in Europe, from 1922 to 1924, visiting schools and
 studying eurythmics with Emile Jaques-Dalcroze in Paris. On his return, he
 established Seijo Kindergarten with another man. Mr. Kobayashi used to tell the
 kindergarten teachers not to try and fit the children into preconceived molds. &ldquo;Leave
 them to nature,&rdquo; he would say. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t cramp their ambitions. Their dreams are bigger
 than yours.&rdquo; There had never been a kindergarten like it in Japan.
 In 1930, Mr. Kobayashi set off for Europe for a further year of study with Dalcroze,
 traveling around and making observations, and decided to start his own school on
 returning to Japan.
 Besides starting Tomoe Gakuen in 1937, he also established the Japan Eurythmics
 Association. Most people remember him as the man who introduced eurythmics to
 Japan and for his work in connection with Kunitachi College of Music after the war.
 There are very few of us left who directly experienced his methods of teaching, and
 it is a tragedy that he died before he was able to establish another school like Tomoe.
 Even as it burned, he was already envisaging a better school. &ldquo;What kind of school
 shall we build next!&rdquo; he asked, in high spirits, undaunted by the commotion around
 him.
 When I began writing this book, I was amazed to find that the producer of &ldquo;Tetsuko&rsquo;s
 Room,&rdquo; my daily television interview program--a producer I had worked with for
 years-- had been doing research on Mr. Kobayashi for a decade. He had never met
 the educator, but his interest was aroused by a woman who once played the piano for
 children&rsquo;s eurythmics classes. &ldquo;Children don&rsquo;t walk like that, you know, Mr.
 Kobayashi had said, correcting her tempo, when she first began. Here was a man
 who was so attuned to children that he knew how they breathed and how they
 99