if I wanted to go to the faculty room I would peep out first, and if you were in the
 corridor I avoided going. Your homeroom teacher often talked about you to me in the
 faculty room. &lsquo;I wonder why she&rsquo;s like that,&rsquo; she would say. That&rsquo;s why, in later
 years, when you started appearing on television, I recognized your name
 immediately. It was a long time ago, but I remember you distinctly when you were in
 first grade.&rdquo;
 Was I made to stand outside in the corridor? I hadn&rsquo;t remembered that and was
 surprised. It was this youthful-looking, gray-haired teacher with a kindly face, who
 had taken the trouble to come to an early morning television show, who finally
 convinced me that I really had been expelled.
 And here I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to my mother for not having
 told me about it until after my twentieth birthday.
 &ldquo;Do you know why you changed elementary schools?&rdquo; she asked me one day. When
 I said no, she went on, quite nonchalantly, &ldquo;It was because you were expelled.&rdquo;
 She might have said at the time, &ldquo;What&rsquo;s going to become of you? You&rsquo;ve already
 been expelled from one school. If they expel you from the next, where will you go?&rdquo;
 If Mother had spoken to me like that, how wretched and nervous I would have felt as
 I entered the gate of Tomoe Gakuen on my first day there. That gate with roots and
 those railroad-car classrooms would not have seemed nearly so delightful to me.
 How lucky I was to have a mother like mine.
 With the war on, only a few photographs were taken at Tomoe. Among them the
 graduation photographs are the nicest. The graduating class usually had its
 photograph taken on the steps in front of the Assembly Hall, but when the graduates
 started lining up with shouts of, &ldquo;Come on, get in the picture!&rdquo; other children would
 want to get in it, too, so it is impossible now to tell which class was graduating. We
 have animated discussions on the subject at our reunions. Mr. Kobayashi never used
 to say anything on these picture-taking occasions. Perhaps he thought it was better to
 have a lively photograph of everyone in the school than a formal graduation picture.
 Looking at them now, these pictures are very representative of Tomoe.
 There is much more I could have written about Tomoe. But I shall be content if I
 have made people realize how even a little girl like Totto-chan, given the right kind
 of adult influence, can become a person who is able to get along with others.
 I am quite sure that if there were schools now like Tomoe, there would be less of the
 violence we hear so much of today and fewer school dropouts. At Tomoe nobody
 wanted to go home when school was over. And in the morning we could hardly wait
 to get there. It was that kind of school.
 Sosaku Kobayashi, the man who had the inspiration and vision to set up this
 wonderful school, was born on June 18, 1893, in the country northwest of Tokyo.
 Nature and music were his passions, and as a child he would stand on the bank of the
 river near his home, with Mount Haruna in the distance, and pretend the gushing
 waters were an orchestra, which he would &ldquo;conduct.&rdquo;
 98