In those days the seashore was so deserted it was like being on their own private
 beach, and the children enjoyed this unusual hot spring sea-bathing to the utmost.
 When they got back to the house in the evening after staying in the water so long,
 their fingers were a mass of wrinkles.
 Each night, once they were tucked into their quilts, the children took tuns telling
 ghost stories. Totto-chan and the other first graders got so frightened they cried. But
 in spite of their tears, they would ask, &ldquo;And then what happened?&rdquo;
 Unlike camping inside the school and the Bravery Test, the three-day stay at Toi Spa
 was a real-life experience. For example, they were sent in tuns to buy vegetables
 and fish for dinner, and when strangers asked them what school they went to and
 where they were from, they had to answer politely. Some of the children nearly got
 lost in the woods. Others swam so far they couldn&rsquo;t get back and had everyone
 worried. Others cut their feet on broken glass on the beach. In each case everyone
 had to do their best to help.
 But mostly it was all fun. There was a forest full of cicadas and a shop where you
 could buy popsicles. And they met a man on the beach who was building a big
 wooden boat all by himself. It was already boat-shaped, and the first thing each
 morning they ran down to the beach to see how much more he had done. The man
 gave Totto-chan a very long and curly wood shaving.
 &ldquo;How about a souvenir photograph?&rdquo; asked the headmaster on the day they were to
 leave. They had never had a photograph taken of them all together and the children
 were excited at the idea. But no sooner was the teacher ready with her camera than
 someone had gone to the toilet; then someone else had his gym shoes on the wrong
 feet and had to change them around. When the teacher finally said, &ldquo;Is everyone
 ready?&rdquo; one or two of the children were lying on the ground, having become tired of
 holding their poses so long. The whole process took a very long time.
 But that photograph, with the sea in the background and each child posing according
 to his or her fancy, became a treasured possession of each of them. One look at it and
 memories would flood back - the boat trip, the hot spring, the ghost stories, and the
 &ldquo;Oops&rdquo; boy. Totto-chan never forgot that first happy summer vacation.
 Those were the days when you could still find crayfish in the pond near their house
 in Tokyo, and the garbage man&rsquo;s cart was pulled by a great big ox.
 Eurythmics
 After summer vacation was over, the second semester began, for in Japan the school
 year starts in April. In addition to the children in her own class, Totto-chan had made
 friends with all the older boys and girls, thanks to the various gatherings during
 summer vacation. And she grew to like Tomoe Gakuen even more.
 Besides the fact that classes at Tomoe were different from those at ordinary schools,
 a great deal more time was devoted to music. There were all sorts of music lessons,
 which included a daily period of eurythmics--a special kind of rhythmic education
 devised by a Swiss music teacher and composer, Emile Jaques-Dalcroze. His studies
 first became known about 1904. His system was rapidly adopted all over Europe and
 36