Spoken English: Short Stories
LEVEL. 1: STORIES FOR PRIMARY SCHOOL CHILDREN
THE WIND AND THE SUN
Once the Wind and the Sun had an argument. &lsquo;l am stronger than you," said the Wind. "No
you are not," said the Sun. Just at that moment they saw a traveler walking across the road
He was wrapped in a shawl. The Sun and the Wind agreed that whoever could separate the
traveller from his shawl was stronger.
The Wind took the first turn. He blew with all his might to tear the traveller&rsquo;s shawl from his
shoulders. But the harder he blew, the tighter the traveller gripped the shawl to his body.
The struggle went on till the Wind's turn was over.
Now it was the Sun's turn. The Sun smiled warmly. The traveller felt the warmth of the
smiling Sun. Soon he let the shawl fall open. The Sun's smile grew warmer and warmer...
hotter and hotter. Now the traveller no longer needed his shawl. He took it off and dropped
It on the ground. The Sun was declared stronger than the WInd.
Moral: Brute force can&rsquo;t achieve what a gentle smile can.
THE  VILLAGER AND THE SPECTACLES
There was a villager. He was illiterate. He did not know how to read and write. He often saw
people wearing spectacles for reading books or papers. He thought, &lsquo;If l have spectacles, 
can also read like these people. l must go to town and buy a pair of spectacles for myself.&rdquo;
So one day he went to a town. He entered a spectacles shop He asked the shopkeeper for a
pair of spectacles for reading. The shopkeeper gave him various pairs of spectacles and a
book. The villager tried all the spectacles one by one. But he could not read anything. He
told the shopkeeper that all those spectacles were useless for him. The shopkeeper gave
him a doubtful look. Then he looked at the book. It was upside down! The shopkeeper said,
&lsquo;Perhaps you don t know how to read.&rdquo;
The villager said, &lsquo;No, l don&rsquo;t. I want to buy spectacles so that l can read like others. But I
can&rsquo;t read with any of these spectacles.&rdquo; The shopkeeper controlled his laughter with great
difficulty when he learnt the real problem of his illiterate customer.
He explained to the villager, &lsquo;My dear friend, you are very ignorant. Spectacles don&rsquo;t help to
read or write. They only help you to see better. First of all you must learn to read and
write.&rdquo;
Moral: lgnorance is blindness.