Spoken English: Short Stories
accepted, and slipped through the middle of the spring. There they lived happily together
And they would always laugh when remembering how the spring used to think that all there
was to life was being a sad and fearful spring.
THE UNFRIENDLY RIVER
Once upon a time there was a river. This river was rather unfriendly and lonesome. The river
could not remember how long ago he had decided that he no longer wanted to put up with
anything or anyone. He lived alone, refusing to share his water with any fish, plant or
animal.
And so his life went on, sadly and filled with loneliness, for many centuries.
One day, a little girl with a goldfish bowl came to the bank of this river. In the bowl lived
Scamp, her favourite little fish. The girl was about to move to another country, and she
wouldn&rsquo;t be able to take Scamp with her. So she had decided to give Scamp his freedom.
When Scamp fell into the river, he immediately felt the river&rsquo;s loneliness. Scamp tried talking
to the river, but the river told Scamp to go away. Now, Scamp was a very happy little fish,
and he wasn&rsquo;t going to give up so easily. He asked and asked, swam and swam, and finally
he started jumping in and out of the water.
The river, feeling all the jumping and splashing, started to laugh. It tickled.
After a while, this put the river in such a good mood that he started talking to Scamp.
Almost without knowing it, by the end of that day, Scamp and the river had become very
good friends.
The river spent that night thinking about how much fun it was to have friends, and how
much he had missed by not having them. He asked himself why he had never had them, but
he GoHlan&rsquo;t remember.
The next morning, Scamp woke the river with a few playful splashes. and that was when
the river remembered why he had decided to be such an unfriendly river.
He remembered that he was very ticklish, and that he wouldn&rsquo;t have been able to stand it!
Now he remembered perfectly how he had told everyone to scoot, that he wasn&rsquo;t going to
out up with all that tickling.
40