Spoken English: Short Stories
Allow this parable on the pencil to encourage you to know that you are a special person and
only you can fulfill the purpose to which you were born to accomplish.
Never allow yourself to get discouraged and think that your life is insignificant and cannot
make a change.
DAD'S BLESSINGS
A young man was getting ready to graduate from college. For many months he had admired
a beautiful sports car in a dealer&rsquo;s showroom, and knowing his father could well afford it, he
told him that was all he wanted.
As Graduation Day approached, the young man awaited signs that his father had purchased
the car. Finally, on the morning of his graduation, his father called him into his private
study. His father told him how proud he was to have such a fine son, and told him how
much he loved him. He handed his son a beautifully wrapped gift box. Curious, but
somewhat disappointed, the young man opened the box and found a lovely, leather -bound
Bible, with the young man&rsquo;s name embossed in gold. Angry, he raised his voice to his father
and said "With all your money, you give me a Bible?&rdquo; and stormed out of the house, leaving
the Bible.
Many years passed and the young man was very successful in business. He had a beautiful
home and wonderful family, but realized his father was very old, and thought perhaps he
should go to him. He had not seen him since that graduation day. Before he could make
arrangements, he received a telegram telling him his father had passed away, and willed all
of his possessions to his son. He needed to come home immediately and take care of things.
When he arrived at his father&rsquo;s house, sudden sadness and regret filled his heart. He began
to search through his father&rsquo;s important papers and saw the still new Bible, just as he had
left it years ago. With tears, he opened the Bible and began to turn the pages. And as he
did, a car key dropped from the back of the Bible. It had a tag with the dealer&rsquo;s name, the
same dealer who had the sports car he had desired. On the tag was the date of his
graduation, and the words PAID IN FULL
How many times do we miss Spirit&rsquo;s blessings and answers to our prayers because they do
not arrive exactly as we have expected?
28