Spoken English: Short Stories
When the woodsmen came upon the third tree, the tree was frightened because he knew
that if they cut him down his dreams would not come true. One of the woodsmen said, &lsquo;I
don&rsquo;t need anything special from my tree so I&rsquo;ll take this one&rdquo;, and he cut it down.
When the first tree arrived at the carpenters, he was made into a feed box for animals. He
was then placed in a barn and filled with hay. This was not at all what he had prayed for. The
second tree was cut and made into a small fishing boat. His dreams of being a mighty ship
and carrying kings had come to an end. The third tree was cut into large pieces and left
alone in the dark. The years went by, and the trees forgot about their dreams.!
Then one day, a man and woman came to the barn. She gave birth and they placed the baby
in the hay in the feed box that was made from the first tree. The man wished that he could
have made a crib for the baby, but this manger would have to do. The tree could feel the
importance of this event and knew that it had held the greatest treasure of all time. Years
later, a group of men got in the fishing boat made from the second tree. One of them was
tired and went to sleep. While they were out on the water, a great storm arose and the tree
didn&rsquo;t think it was strong enough to keep the men safe. T he men woke the sleeping man,
and he stood and said &lsquo;Peace&rdquo; and the storm stopped. Ht this time, the tree knew that it
had carried the King of Kings in its boat!
Finally, someone came and got the third tree. It was carried through the streets as the
people mocked the man who was carrying it. When they came to a stop, the man was nailed
to the tree and raised in the air to die at the top of a hill. When Sunday came, the tree came
to realize that it was strong enough to stand at the top of the hill and be as close to God as
was possible, because Jesus had been crucified on it.
The moral of this story is that when things don&rsquo;t seem to be going your way, always know
that God has a plan for you. If you place your trust in Him, He will give you great gifts. Each
of the trees got what they wanted, just not in the way they had imagined. We don&rsquo;t always
know what God&rsquo;s plans are for us. We just know that His ways are not our ways, but His
ways are always best.
26