Spoken English: Short Stories
THE GREEDY CLOUD
Once upon a time lived on a cloud that was grown up over a very beautiful country. One
day, she saw another much bigger cloud and she felt so much envy, than the cloud decided
that in order to get bigger and grow more, her water would never abandon her, and will
never start raining again.
Indeed, the cloud grew up, while his country was getting dried. First, rivers dried up, then
people, animals, plants, and finally, the whole country became a desert. The cloud did not
care much, but she also did not realize that by being over a desert there was no place where
she could obtain new water to keep growing. So slowly, the cloud began to lose size, and
was unable to do anything to stop it .
The cloud then realized her mistake, and that her greed and selfishness were the cause of
her vanishing; but just before evaporating, when she was just a sigh of cotton, there started
blowing a gentle breeze. The cloud was so small and weighed so little that the wind took her
far away, to a faraway beautiful country, where once again she recovered her original size.
Having learned this lesson, our cloud remained small and modest, but she became so
generous when raining, that her new country became even greener, giving away to all
people there the most beautiful rainbow in the world.
A MAD MAN IN THE CITY
Julian finally left his village when there was no one left living there. He had never left his
beloved village before, but intrigued by the fact that everyone had gone to the city, he
decided to go and see for himself what wonderful things those cities had. So he packed a
knapsack with a few clothes, put on his best smile, and off he went to the city.
On reaching the city, he was given a most unexpected welcome. A couple of policemen
stopped Julian and questioned him in great detail. It turned out that Julian had seemed
suspiciously happy&rsquo; for someone with hardly any possessions. In the end, the police had to
let him go, but they were still suspicious about this apparently simple and good -natured
fellow.
29