Spoken English: Short Stories
faces. Before long, all the children in town had gathered around Gus, thinking up new games
they could play using the cloud.
For the first time ever, Gus started to see the positive side of things; even things which, at
first, had seemed so bad. Chuckles, the prankster cloud, thought that he could now leave;
his work had been done. But, before leaving, he gave Gus two days of multicoloured rain,
with which the children invented the most fun games ever.
When Chuckles finally left, Gus didn&rsquo;t complain. Now he knew to focus on the good in life,
and the good thing about Chuckles&rsquo; departure was that no longer was Gus soaking wet all
day. Now he could go and do dry things, and that&rsquo;s exactly what he did.
MY LITTLE WORLD HAS BROKEN
Once upon a time there was a spring who lived happily and safely inside a pen. Although he
heard many noises coming from outside, he lived believing that outside his world inside the
pen, there was nothing good. Even just to think about leaving his pen made him so scared
that he was quite content to spend his life compacting and stretching himself again and
again inside that tiny space.
However, one day, the ink r an out, and when the pen&rsquo;s owner was busy changing it, there
was an accident. The spring was flung through the air and landed in the toilet drain, well out
of sight. Terrified, and cursing his bad luck, the spring was flushed through pipe after pipe,
each time thinking it might be his end. During the journey, he did not dare open his eyes out
of pure fear. Nor did he ever y stop crying. Swept away by the water, he travelled on and or
and on, until he ended up in a river. When the river current lost its force, and the spring
could see that things had calmed down a bit, he stopped crying and listened all around him.
Hearing birdsong and wind in the trees, he felt encouraged to finally open his eyes. What
the spring saw was the pure, crystal waters of the river, the rich green rocks of the riverbed,
and all kinds of fish of many colours, whose skin seemed to dance under the sunlight. Now
he understood that the world was much greater than the space inside the pen, and that
there had always been many things outside, waiting to be enjoyed.
After spending a while playing with the fish, he went over to the riverbank, and then moved
on to a field of flowers. There he heard weeping. He followed the sound, which took him to
a lovely flower that had been flattened by a rabbit, and could no longer stand up straight!
The spring realised that he could help the flower, so he offered to be his support. The flower
39