Spoken English: Short Stories
Unlucky for the fish! The giant fan beat the little lake&rsquo;s waters so strongly that huge waves
rolled right across it. The waves crashed onto the lakeshore, leaving the lake half empty, and
Gail stranded in only a few inches of water.
&lsquo;You couldn&rsquo;t just hang on for while. You had to empty the lake,&rdquo; some unhappy-looking fish
berated her. &lsquo;So impatient! So selfish!&rsquo;&rdquo; others shouted. But the worst of it for Gail was not
the insults, but the fact that with so little water around her, the heat was becoming
unbearable. Preparing herself to die of heatstroke, she said her goodbyes to all her friends,
and they asked for her forgiveness. She assured them all that if she were to live again she
would be stronger and learn to put up with life&rsquo;s discomforts.
Yet, once again, Gail the Whale was overreacting. She managed to survive those hot days
without dying, although, of course, she suffered. When the next rains arrived, the lake filled
up again, and the weather improved. Naturally, Gail had to keep her promise, and show
everyone that she had learned not to be so dependent on comfort, so impatient, and so
fussy.
THE MAGIC WINDOW
Once upon a time there was a little boy who became very ill. He had to spend all day in bed,
unable to move. Because other children weren&rsquo;t allowed to come near him, he suffered
greatly, and spent his days feeling sad and blue.
There wasn&rsquo;t much he could do except look out of the window. Time passed, and his feeling
of despair just grew. Until one day he saw a strange shape in the window. It was a penguin
eating a sausage sandwich. The penguin squeezed in through the open window, said "good
afternoon" to the boy, turned around, and left again.
Of course, the boy was very surprised. He was still trying to work out what had happened,
when outside his window he saw a monkey in a nappy, busy blowing up a balloon. At first
the boy asked himself what that could possibly be, but after a while, as more and more
crazy -looking characters appeared out the window, he burst out laughing and found it hard
to stop.
Anyone wanting to stop laughing would never be helped by seeing a pig playing a
tambourine, an elephant jumping on a trampoline, or a dog wearing a pair of glasses and
talking about nothing except politics. The little boy didn&rsquo;t tell anyone about this because
who would have believed him? Even so, those strange characters ended up putting joy back
43