Spoken English: Short Stories
To further appease his grief -stricken wife he promised that her son would be worshipped
first, before all other Gods.
Even today at the entrance of all temples one would find the idol of the elephant-headed
God, Lord Ganesha.
EAGLES IN A STORM
Did you know that an eagle knows when a storm is approaching long before it breaks? The
eagle will fly to some high spot and wait for the winds to come. When the storm hits, it sets
its wings so that the wind will pick it up and lift it above the storm. While the storm rages
below, the eagle is soaring above it.The eagle does not escape the storm. It simply uses the
storm to lift it higher. It rises on the winds that bring the storm.When the storms of life
come upon us - and all of us will experience them - we can rise above them by setting our
minds and our belief toward God. The storms d o not have to overcome us. We can allow
God s power to lift us above them.God enables us to ride the winds of the storm that bring
sickness, tragedy, failure and disappointment in our lives. We can soar above the storm.
THE ANT AND THE GRASSHOPPER.
One summer&rsquo;s day, a merry Grasshopper was dancing, singing and playing his violin with all
his heart. He saw an Ant passing by, bearing along with great toil a wheatear to store for the
Winter.
"Come and sing with me instead of working so hard", said the Grasshopper "Let's have fun
together.&rdquo;
&lsquo;I must store food for the winter&rdquo;, said the Ant, &lsquo;and l advise you to do the same.&rdquo;
&lsquo;Don&rsquo;t worry about winter, it&rsquo; s still very far away&rdquo;, said the Grasshopper, laughing at him.
But the Ant wouldn&rsquo;t listen and continued his toil.
When the winter came, the starving Grasshopper went to the Ant&rsquo;s house and humbly
begged for something to eat.
&lsquo;If you had listened to my advice in the summer you would not now be in need,&rdquo; said the
Ant. "I'm afraid you will have to go supperless to bed," and he closed the door.
It is best to prepare for the days of necessity.
14