Spoken English: Short Stories
The first thing Julian noticed about the city was all the rushing around. Everyone was in such
a hurry that he thought that there must be something special happening that day, which no
one wanted to miss. Curious as to what it was, Julian started following a man who looked
like he was hurrying to see whatever it was that was happening. However, after sever al
hours following him, the man arrived at a small flat and went inside. He had done or seen
nothing of inter est that whole day
That night Julian slept in a park. The park was strewn with bits of paper and plastic. Hs the
bins were completely empty, Julian thought how cool it was that the city had seemingly
invented plants with petals made of paper and plastic. He only believed this until the
following morning, when a man came by and dropped his chocolate wrapper.
Julian carried on walking through the city streets, trying to understand what was going on,
when he arrived at a group of big warehouses, which many people were entering. &lsquo;This
must be the best museum in the world,&rdquo; he thought, on entering, and seeing all the useless-
looking things they had inside. But then he saw that people were picking these things up,
paying for them, and taking them away.
&lsquo;Why would anyone want a watch which doesn&rsquo;t show the minutes?&rdquo; he wondered to
himself, after seeing a woman very contentedly leaving with the most modern of watches
on her wrist. He thought pretty much the same when seeing a pair of shoes with impossibly
high heels, and then some electronic device which did a thousand things, and none of them
well. Once again, he decided to follow the lady with the watch. He saw her joy turn into
disappointment when her friends gave her new watch a look of disapproval. Julian started
regretting having left his village, just to come to this place where no one seemed happy.
Then he saw a few kids playing. Now, they certainly did seem happy, playing, running about,
chasing each other. Except for one child, who seemed troubled by a little machine they
were calling a console. He was hitting it so hard with his fingers, and making all kinds of
faces and angry gestures, that when one of the other children came over to invite him to
play with them, the boy with the console just rudely walked away. Julian thought that the
boy was trying to destroy that little machine because it was making him so unhappy. He
decided to help the boy. Julian went over, took the console, threw it on the ground
stamped on it, and looked at the boy with great satisfaction.
37