Spoken English: Short Stories
The next time you see a copy of that touching creation, take a second look. Let it be your
reminder, if you still need one, that no one - no one - - ever makes it alone
Remember, it is not the burdens of life that weigh us down; it is how we handle them
THE FOUR WIVES
There was a rich merchant who had 4 wives. He loved the 4th wife the most and adorned
her with rich robes and treated her to delicacies. He took great care of her and gave her
nothing but the best.
He also loved the 3rd wife very much. He&rsquo;s very proud of her and always wanted to show off
her to his friends. However, the merchant is always in great fear that she might run away
with some other men.
He too, loved his 2nd wife. She is a very considerate person, always patient and in fact is the
merchant's confidante. Whenever the merchant faced some problems, he always turned to
his 2nd wife and she would always help him out and tide him through difficult times.
Now, the merchant s 1st wife is a very loyal partner and has made great contributions in
maintaining his wealth and business as well as taking care of the household. However, the
merchant did not love the first wife and although she loved him deeply, he hardly took
notice of her.
One day, the merchant fell ill. Before long, he knew that he was going to die soon. He
thought of his luxurious life and told himself, &lsquo;Now l have 4 wives with me. But when I die,
&lsquo;ll be alone. How lonely I ll be!"
Thus, he asked the 4th wife, &lsquo;l loved you most, endowed you with the finest clothing and
showered great care over you. Now that I&rsquo;m dying, will you follow me and keep me
company ? " No way! " replied the 4th wife and she walked away without another word.&rsquo;
The answer cut like a sharp knife right into the merchant&rsquo;s heart. The sad merchant then
asked the 3rd wife, &lsquo;l have loved you so much for all my life. Now that l&rsquo; m dying, will you
follow me and keep me company ? "No!" replied the 3rd wife. &lsquo;Life is so good over here
I'm going to remarry when you die!" The merchant's heart sank and turned cold.
20