Spoken English: Short Stories
He then asked the 2nd wife, &lsquo;l always turned to you for help and you've always helped me
out. Now I need your help again. When l die, will you follow me and keep me company?&rsquo;&rdquo;
&lsquo;I'm sorry, l can t help you out this time!&rsquo; replied the 2nd wife. &lsquo;At the very most, l can only
send you to your grave.&rdquo; The answer came like a bolt of thunder and the merchant was
devastated.
Then a voice called out: &lsquo;I&rsquo;ll leave with you. I'll follow you no matter where you go.&rdquo; The
merchant looked up and there was his first wife. She was so skinny, almost like she suffered
from malnutrition. Greatly grieved, the merchant said, &lsquo;l should have taken much better
care of you while I could have!&rdquo;
Actually, we all have 4wives in our lives
a. The 4th wife is our body. No matter how much time and effort we lavish in making it look
good, it'll leave us when we die.
b. Our 3rd wife? Our possessions, status and wealth. When we die, they all go to others.
c. The 2nd wife is our family and friends. No matter how close they had been there for us
when we&rsquo;re alive, the furthest they can stay by us is up to the grave.
d. The 1st wife is in fact our soul, often neglected in our pursuit of material, wealth and
sensual pleasure.&rsquo;
Guess what? It is actually the only thing that follows us wherever we go. Perhaps it's a good
idea to cultivate and strengthen it now rather than to wait until we&rsquo;re on our deathbed to
lament
WAIT FOR THE BRICK
A young and successful executive was traveling down a neighbor hood street, going a bit too
fast in his new Jaguar. He was watching for kids darting out from between parked cars and
slowed down when he thought he saw something.As his car passed, no children appeared.
instead, a brick smashed into the jag&rsquo;s side door! He slammed on the brakes and drove the
jag back to the spot where the brick had been thrown. The angry driver then jumped out of
the car, grabbed the nearest kid and pushed him up against a parked car, shouting, "What
was that all about and who are you ? Just what the heck are you doing?
27