Spoken English: Short Stories
totally back to her best she looked at her reflection and saw that she was indeed a beautiful
flower. She thought
"Wow! Till now l hadn&rsquo;t realised who I was, how could I have been so blind?&rdquo;
The rose came to realise she had spent her days without appreciating her beauty, unable to
see herself, unable to know who she really was.
If you really want to know who you are, forget everything that's around you, and just look
into your heart.
THE RUBY THIEF
In the palace of Rubyland there was a ruby thief. No one knew who it was, and the thief had
everyone so fooled that the only thing known about him was that he lived in the palace, and
that when you were in the palace you should always hide your jewels.
The King decided to find out who it was, and he asked for help from a wise dwarf who was
famed for his intelligence. The dwarf spent some days there, watching and listening, until
their was another theft. The following morning the wise dwarf made all the palace
inhabitants meet up together in the same room. After inspecting them for the whole
morning, and during lunch, without saying a word, the dwarf started asking them all, one by
one, what they knew about the stolen jewels.
Once again, it seemed that no one had been the thief. But then, suddenly, one of the
gardeners began coughing, writhing and moaning, and finally he fell to the floor.
The dwarf, with a cheeky smile, explained that the food they had just eaten was poisoned,
and the only antidote for this poison was hidden inside the ruby that had been stolen the
previous night. And he explained how, some days earlier, he himself had swapped some
false rubies for the genuine ones, and that he expected that only the thief would be able to
save his life, since the poison was particularly quick working.
The coughs and groans spread around the room, and terror took hold of all present. All
except one person. A footman didn&rsquo;t take long to run over to where he had hidden the
jewels, from where he took the final ruby. Fortunately he would be able to open it and drink
the strange liquid inside, thus saving his life.
34