Spoken English: Short Stories
THE MISER
A miser sold all that he had and bought a lump of gold, which he buried in a hole in the
ground by the side of an old wall and went to look at daily. One of his workmen observed his
frequent visits to the spot and decided to watch his movements. He soon discovered the
secret of the hidden treasure, and digging down, came to the lump of gold, and stole it. The
Wiser, on his next visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to make loud
amentations. A neighbor, seeing him overcome with grief and learning the cause, said,
&lsquo;Pray do not grieve so; but go and take a stone, and place it in the hole, and fancy that the
gold is still lying there. It will do you quite the same service; for when the gold was there,
you had it not, as you did not make the slightest use of it.&rsquo;
TWO FROGS
A group of frogs were traveling through the woods, and two of them fell into a deep pit
When the other frogs saw how deep the pit was, they told the two frogs that they were as
good as dead. The two frogs ignored the comments and tried to jump up out of the pit with
all their might. The other frogs kept telling them to stop, that they were as good as dead.
Finally, one of the frogs took heed to what the other frogs were saying and gave up. He fell
down and died.The other frog continued to jump as hard as he could. Once again, the crowd
of frogs yelled at him to stop the pain and just die. He jumped even harder and finally made
it out. When he got out, the other frogs said, &lsquo;Did you not hear us? The frog explained to
them that he was deaf. He thought they were encouraging him the entire time.
This story teaches two lessons
1.There is power of life and death in the tongue. An encouraging word to someone who is
down can lift them up and help them make it through the day.
2. A destructive word to someone who is down can be what it takes to kill them.
Be careful of what you say. Speak life to those who cross your path. The power of words...it
is sometimes hard to understand that an encouraging word can go such a long way. Anyone
can speak words that tend to rob another of the spirit to continue in difficult times. Special
is the individual who will take the time to encourage another.
16