Spoken English: Short Stories
LEVEL 2:  STORIES FOR SECONDARY SCHOOL. CHILDREN
A BOX FULL OF KISSES
The story goes that some time ago, a man punished his 3 -year -old daughter for wasting a
roll of gold wrapping paper. Money was tight and he became infuriated when the child tried
to decorate a box to put under the Christmas tree. Nevertheless, the little girl brought the
gift to her father the next morning and said, &lsquo;This is for you, Daddy.&rsquo;The man was
embarrassed by his earlier overreaction, but his anger flared again when he found out the
box was empty. He yelled at her, stating, &lsquo;Don&rsquo;t you know, when you give someone a
present, there is supposed to be something inside? The little girl looked up at him with tears
in her eyes and cried, &lsquo;Oh, Daddy, it s not empty at all. l blew kisses into the box. They're all
for you, Daddy.&rdquo;The father was crushed. He put his arms around his little girl, and he begged
for her forgiveness.Only a short time later, an accident took the life of the child. It is also
told that her father kept that gold box by his bed for many years and, whenever he was
discouraged, he would take out an imaginary kiss and remember the love of the child who
had put it there.In a very real sense, each one of us, as humans beings have been given a
gold container filled with unconditional love and kisses... from our children, family members
friends, and God. There is simply no other possession, anyone could hold, more precious
than this.
THE PRAYING HANDS
Back in the fifteenth century, in a tiny village near Nuremberg, lived a family with eighteen
children. Eighteen! In order merely to keep food on the table for this mob, the father and
head of the household, a goldsmith by profession, worked almost eighteen hours a day at
his trade and any other paying chore he could find in the neighborhood. Despite their
seemingly hopeless condition, two of Albrecht Durer the Elder&rsquo;s children had a dream. They
both wanted to pursue their talent for art, but they knew full well that their father would
never be financially able to send either of them to Nuremberg to study at the
Academy.After many long discussions at night in their crowded bed, the two boys finally
worked out a pact. They would toss a coin. The loser would go down into the near by mines
and, with his earnings, support his brother while he attended the academy. Then, when that
brother who won the toss completed his studies, in four years, he would support the other
18