Spoken English: Short Stories
AS YOU SOW, SO SHALL YOU REAP
One night, three thieves stole a lot of money from a rich man s house. They put the money
n a bag and went to the forest. They felt very hungry. So, one of them went to a nearby
village to buy food. The other two remained in the forest to take care of the bag of money.
The thief that went for food had an evil idea. He ate his food at a hotel. Then he bought
food for his two mates in the forest. He mixed a strong poison with the food. He thought,
&lsquo;Those two will eat this poisoned food and die. Then I will get all the money for myself.&rdquo;
Meanwhile, the two wicked men in the forest decided to kill their mate on return. They
thought that they would divide the money between the two of them. All the three wicked
men carried out their cruel plans. The thief who wanted all the money for himself came to
the forest with the poisoned food. The two men in the forest hit him and killed him. Then
they ate the poisoned food and died.
Thus, these evil people met with an evil end.!
Moral: Evil begets evil
THE FARMER AND HIS SONS
A farmer had five sons. They were strong and hardworking. But they always quarrelled with
one another. Sometimes, they even fought. The farmer wanted his sons to stop quarrelling
and fighting. He wanted them to live in peace. Plain words of advice or scolding did not have
much effect on these young people.
The farmer always thought what to do to keep his sons united. One day he found an answer
to the problem. So he called all his sons together. He showed them a bundle of sticks and
said, &lsquo;l want any of you to break these sticks without separating them from the bundle.&rdquo;,
Each of the five sons tried one by one. They used their full strength and skill. But none of
them could break the sticks. Then the old man separated the sticks and gave each of them
just a single stick to break. They broke the sticks easily.
The farmer said, &lsquo;A single stick by itself is weak. It is strong as long as it is tied up in a
bundle. Likewise, you will be strong if you are united. You will be weak if you are divided.&rdquo;,
Moral: United we stand, Divided we fall.