Spoken English: Short Stories
For the remainder of his days he ate every meal with the family. And for some reason,
neither husband nor wife seemed to care any longer when a fork was dropped, milk spilled,
or the tablecloth soiled. Children are remarkably perceptive. Their eyes ever observe, their
ears ever listen, and their minds ever process the messages they absorb. If they see us
patiently provide a happy home atmosphere for family members, they will imitate that
attitude for the rest of their lives. The wise parent realizes that every day that building
blocks are being laid for the child&rsquo;s future.
Let us all be wise builders and role models. Take care of yourself,. and those you love,...
today, and everyday
TREES THAT WOOD
Once there were three trees on a hill in the woods. They were discussing their hopes and
dreams when the first tree said, "Someday l hope to be a treasure chest. I could be filled
with gold, silver and precious gems. I could be decorated with intricate carving and
everyone would see the beauty.&rdquo;
Then the second tree said, &lsquo;Someday I will be a mighty ship. I will take kings and queens
across the waters and sail to the corners of the world. Everyone will feel safe in me because
of the strength of my hull.&rsquo;
Finally the third tree said, &lsquo;l want to grow to be the tallest and straightest tree in the forest.
People will see me on top of the hill and look up to my branches, and think of the heavens
and God and how close to them l am reaching. I will be the greatest tree of all time and
people will always remember me.&rdquo;
After a few years of praying that their dreams would come true, a group of woodsmen came
upon the trees. When one came to the first tree he said, &lsquo;This looks like a strong tree, l think
should be able to sell the wood to a carpenter&rdquo;. and he began cutting it down. The tree
was happy, because he knew that the carpenter would make him into a treasure chest.
At the second tree a woodsman said, &lsquo;This looks like a strong tree, l should be able to sell it
to the shipyard.&rdquo; The second tree was happy because he knew he was on his way to
becoming a mighty ship.
25