Spoken English: Short Stories
But, remembering how sad and lonely he had felt for so many years, the river realised that
although it may sometimes be a bit inconvenient or uncomfortable, it was always better to
have friends and to try to be happy&rsquo;
THE TICKLING SCALES
One day, in the jungle, a set of bathroom scales appeared. The animals played with it for
quite some time until a parrot who had escaped from the zoo explained to them how it
worked. All the animals took turns to weigh themselves. At first this was a big game; every
day each animal would see how much weight they had gained or lost. However, before long
many animals began to obsess about their weight. The first thing they would do each day
would be to run to the scales, weigh themselves, and spend the rest of the day with a
grumpy expression on their faces. This because, no matter what the scales said, the animals
always weighed the same, in other words: &lsquo;more than they wanted to&rdquo;&rsquo;.
As the months passed, the scales began to suffer the animals&rsquo; disapproval. The scales were
regularly kicked, or given poisonous looks. One day, the scales decided that from the
following morning things would have to change.
That morning, the first to run to weigh itself was the zebra. However, as soon as it stepped
onto the scales, the scales began tickling the zebra&rdquo;s hooves. Soon the scales found just the
right spot, and the zebra couldn&rsquo;t stop giggling. This was so much fun for the zebra that from
that day on it no longer worried about its weight, and off it went to happily eat its breakfast
for the first time in ages. The same happened to whoever went to weigh themselves that
day. so that, before long, no one was worried any longer about their weight. Rather, they
all commented on how much fun the scales and its tickling were.
As the months and the years passed, the scales stopped reading weight and began reading
good humour and optimism instead. Soon everyone happily discovered that this was a much
better indicator of beauty and a person&rsquo;s value. Finally, in the jungle everyone forgot about
that antiquated and old -fashioned measurement known as the kilo.
A DAY WITH PIGS
There was once a boy who would never get dressed when his parents told him to, nor would
he put on what they wanted him to after his bath. He preferred to dress in a much stranger
manner, but above all, he liked to take his time. His parents were always in a rush, and
41