Spoken English: Short Stories
Well, the Man didn&rsquo;t know what to do, but at last he took his Boy up before him on the
Donkey. By this time they had come to the town, and the passers-by began to jeer and point
at them. The Man stopped and asked what they were scoffing at. The men said.
&lsquo;Aren&rsquo;t you ashamed of yourself for overloading that poor donkey of yours and your hulking
son?&rdquo;
The Man and Boy got off and tried to think what to do. They thought and they thought, till
at last they cut down a pole, tied the donkey&rsquo;s feet to it, and raised the pole and the donkey
to their shoulders. They went along amid the laughter of all who met them till they came to
Market Bridge, when the Donkey, getting one of his feet loose, kicked out and caused the
Boy to drop his end of the pole. In the struggle the Donkey fell over the bridge, and his fore-
feet being tied together he was drowned.&rsquo;
"That will teach you,&rdquo; said an old man who had followed them.
Please all, and you will please none
THE WOODEN BOWL
A frail old man went to live with his son, daughter -in-law, and a four -year old grandson. The
old man&rsquo;s hands trembled, his eyesight was blurred, and his step f altered. T he family ate
together nightly at the dinner table. But the elderly grandfather&rsquo;s shaky hands and failing
sight made eating rather difficult. Peas rolled off his spoon onto the floor. When he grasped
the glass often milk spilled on the tablecloth. The son and daughter -in-law became irritated
with the mess. "We must do something about grandfather,&rdquo; said the son. I&rsquo;ve had enough of
his spilled milk, noisy eating, and food on the floor. So the husband and wife set a small
table in the corner. There, gr and father ate alone while the rest of the family enjoyed dinner
at the dinner table. Since grandfather had broken a dish or two, his food was served in a
wooden bowl. Sometimes when the family glanced in grandfather&rsquo;s direction, he had a tear
in his eye as he ate alone. Still, the only words the couple had for him were sharp
admonitions when he dropped a fork or spilled food. The four -year-old watched it all in
silence.
One evening before supper, the father noticed his son playing with wood scraps on the
floor. He asked the child sweetly,"What are you making?&rdquo; Just as sweetly, the boy
responded, &lsquo;Oh, l am making a little bowl for you and mama to eat your food from when I
grow up." The four -year -old smiled and went back to work. The words so struck the parents
that they were speechless. Then tears started to stream down their cheeks. Though no word
was spoken, both knew what must be done. That evening the husband took grandfather&rsquo;s
hand and gently led him back to the family table.
24