Spoken English: Short Stories
wanted him to be a lot quicker, but the boy didn&rsquo;t like this, and he would slow down ever
more
One day, his parents were in their usual hurry, and they got so angry when he refused to
dress, that they told him that he would have to go out naked. The boy didn&rsquo;t mind this in the
least. So out they went.
While the boy was standing naked outside his house, waiting for his parents to bring the car,
along came the local pig farmer. The pig farmer was hard of hearing and had poor eyesight.
Not only that, but he&rsquo;d also forgotten to put his glasses on that day. When he saw the little
boy&rsquo;s pink skin, he thought it was one of his pigs. And, with a bit of shouting, prodding, and
pushing, the farmer managed to get the boy safely back to a pigsty&rsquo;
The boy protested the whole way there, but as the farmer was almost deaf, his complaints
didn&rsquo;t help him. And there he was for the whole day, living amongst the pigs, thought to be
a pig, and sharing their food and home
Finally, though, his parents found him. The boy had had such a regrettable day that never
again did he want to be mistaken for anything other than a human being. Nowadays he&rsquo;s
the first to get dressed, and look perfectly neat and tidy, just like those children in the
clothes catalogues
THE WARM WHALE
Gail the Whale lived in a small salty lake. She was the only whale in that territory, and she
led a very comfortable life. In fact, this easy life made her a bit fussy. But, one year, there
was such an incredibly hot summer that the lake&rsquo;s water really warmed up. Gail, used to
such an ideal existence, could hardly stand the hot water. A little fish, which had spent some
time in a child&rsquo;s goldfish bowl, told Gail that humans used fans to cool themselves down in
summer. From then on, Gail the Whale couldn&rsquo;t think of anything else apart from how to
build her very own fan.
Everyone told her that she was overreacting, and that the hot weather would soon pass, but
Gail got to work, constructing her enormous fan. When it was finally finished, she started
fanning away at herself!
42