Spoken English: Short Stories
moment. Then reaching deep into his pocket, he pulled out a handful of change and held it
up to the farmer. "I've got thirty-nine cents. Is that enough to take a look?" "Sure," said the
farmer.
And with that he let out a whistle, "Here, Dolly!&rdquo; he called.
Out from the doghouse and down the ramp ran Dolly followed by four little balls of fur. The
little boy pressed his face against the chain link fence. His eyes danced with delight.
As the dogs made their way to the fence, the little boy noticed something else stirring inside
the doghouse. Slowly another little ball appeared; this One noticeably smaller. Down the
ramp it slid. Then in a somewhat awkward manner the little pup began hobbling toward the
others, doing its best to catch up."I want that one,&rdquo; the little boy said, pointing to the
runt.
The farmer knelt down at the boy's side and said, "Son, you don&rsquo;t want that puppy. He will
never be able to run and play with you like these other dogs would.&rdquo; With that the little boy
stepped back from the fence, reached down, and began rolling up one leg of his trousers. In
doing so he revealed a steel brace running down both sides of his leg attaching itself to a
specially made shoe. Looking back up at the farmer, he said, &lsquo;You see sir, l don&rsquo;t run too
well myself, and he will need someone who understands.&rdquo;
The world is full of people who need someone who understands."
THE MAN, THE BOY AND THE DONKEY
A Man and his son were once going with their Donkey to market. As they were walking
along by its side a countryman passed them and said. &lsquo;You fools, what is a Donkey for but to
ride upon?&rdquo;
So the Man put the Boy on the Donkey and they went on their way. But soon they passed a
group of men, one of whom said. &lsquo;See that lazy youngster, he lets his father walk while he
rides.&rdquo;
So the Man ordered his Boy to get off, and got on himself. But they hadn&rsquo;t gone far when
they passed two women, one of whom said to the other. &lsquo;Shame on that lazy lout to let his
poor little son trudge along.&rsquo;
29