Spoken English: Short Stories
It turned out not bad at all, except for a couple of jagged lines. He imagined his bossy little
teacher telling him to round out those edges, and that it looked like he was trying to give
him spots. Pinty gladly rubbed out those bits and redrew them. He realised that the crazy
little teacher had been right: it made no difference whether you had the magic pencil or not
to manage to do things, you only needed to keep trying and to enjoy doing so.
From that day on, whenever Pinty tried to draw or paint, or do anything else, he always had
fun imagining the result of his work protesting to him and saying &lsquo;Come on, my friend, do
me a bit better than that! l can&rsquo;t go to the party looking like this!
THE SINGING HIPPO
Once upon a time, a hippopotamus lived in a river next to a big and solitary tree.
One day, a bird came and nested in the tree. The songs and the flight of the bird caused
such envy in the hippo that he couldn&rsquo;t think of anything else. Every day he would lament
the fact that he had been born a hippo. This, despite the many times the bird told the hippo
he was so lucky to be so big and such a good swimmer.
Finally, the hippo made his mind up that he would come out of the river, climb the tree, go
out to perch on a branch, and start singing. However, when he tried to climb the tree it was
all too clear that the hippo didn&rsquo;t have wings, nor claws to climb with, and neither could he
hop.
Realising that he would never manage it, he angrily rammed his whole weight against the
tree until it came crashing to the ground. Then, triumphantly, he stepped onto the leaves of,
the fallen tree, and began singing.
Unfortunately, hippos can&rsquo;t sing either. All that came from his mouth were horrible noises
and when the other animals heard this they all gathered round to make fun of the hippo
standing on the branch of a fallen tree, trying to sing like a bird.
He was so embarrassed by this that he decided to never again regret being a hippo. He also
felt bad about having knocked the tree over. He used all his strength to raise the tree back
up again, replant it, and look after it until it had completely recovered.
37