Spoken English: Short Stories
LAUGHTER IS THE BEST MEDICINE
Once there lived a grumpy king. He never used to laugh nor allow anyone in the kingdom to
laugh.
One day, a small boy couldn&rsquo;t control his laughter. Later, scared of the punishment, he
thought of a plan. He wrote a funny story and converted it into a drama.
Then he went to the palace and asked the king, "May I present my drama to you?&rdquo; the king
let him do it. Then the boy started the play. In the end, he came to the funniest part of the
story which made the king laugh.
All people present in the court were amazed. The king then allowed everybody to laugh.
Everyone then lived happily thereafter.
THE STORY OF LORD GANE SHA.
One day, Goddess Parvathi, the wife of lord Shiva, was getting ready for her bath and
needed someone to guard her chamber. Therefore she made a beautiful, young boy from
the sandalwood from her body. She gave him life by sprinkling the Holy Ganges water on
him and entrusted him with guarding the door.
While she was away, Lord Shiva returned and was surprised to find a little boy standing at
the entrance to his wife&rsquo;s chamber. When he tried to enter, the boy blocked his path. &lsquo;Who
are you and why are you blocking my path?&rdquo; demanded Lord Shiva. "No one enters my
mother's chamber&rdquo;, declared the boy boldly. Taken aback, Lord Shiva replied, "Step away; I
have the right to enter my wife&rsquo;s chamber." But the young and courageous boy did not
move but stood his ground. Not knowing that this was his own son, Lord Shiva who was
quick to anger grew enraged. Not used to be disobeyed he cut off the boy s head.
Goddess Parvathi on returning from her bath saw her son lying dead and was overcome
with grief. She was filled with both anger and sorrow. Seeing this Lord Shiva sent his soldiers
to fetch the head of the first beast that they saw. The men rushed and finally came upon an
elephant. They immediately took the head to Lord Shiva, who quickly attached it onto the
body of the slain boy and gave him life once again.&rsquo;
13